<center><strong>Mobility of Trace Elements in Typical Karst Areas Soils of Guizhou,
China</strong>

<center><strong>Jicheng Xia <sup>a,b</sup></strong>, C. W.N. Anderson<sup>c</sup>, J. Wang <sup>a</sup> and X. Feng <sup>a</sup>

<center><i><sup>a</sup> Institute of Geochemistry, Chinese Academy of Sciences, P.R. China</i>

<center><i><sup>b</sup> College of Earth and Planetary Sciences, University of Chinese
Academy of Sciences, P.R. China</i>

<center><i><sup>c</sup> Institute of Agriculture and Environment, Massey University, New
Zealand</i>

<center><i>xiajicheng@mail.gyig.ac.cn</i>

<p style=text-align:justify>Trace elements usually have unique geochemical behavioural
characteristics in karst areas, but in-depth systematic research on
heavy metals in karst areas has been lacking. Guizhou province is
located in the karst center, south western of China. Rich in mineral
resources and characterized by high geological background of trace
metals. Therefore, research on micro-interface processes of heavy metal
in typical pollution areas of Guizhou can provide scientific basis for
prevention and control of heavy metals pollution in Guizhou.

<p style=text-align:justify>The difference of spatial and temporal distribution of heavy metals in
rainfall and surface runoff in Huilong catchment and Chenqi catchment is
obviously. The trace elements(Hg、Tl、 As、 Sb、Cd、Pb、Zn and Mn in
this work) content of rainfall and surface runoff in Huilong catchment
is higher than that in Chenqi, and heavy metal content in the dry season
(Oct-Apr) is higher than rainy season (May-Sep). The next step is to
combine the rainfall and runoff data to calculate the annual heavy metal
input and output fluxes for the two small watersheds. The distribution
of heavy metals in soil profiles is quite different. Some elements\`
distribution trend (such as mercury and thallium in Huilong catchment,
R<sup>2</sup>=0.78) is similar, which may be related to parent rock background,
soil formation process and external input. The relationship of trace
elements mobility with other parameters (multi-element concentrations in
soils, SOM, CEC, pH and redox potential) will be discussed.
