<center><strong>Development and validation of a model for whole term aging of nickel added to a wide range of soils using a complementary error function </strong>

<center><strong>Shiwei Li<sup>a</sup></strong> and Y.B. Ma<sup>b</sup>

<center><i><sup>a</sup> School of Water Conservancy and Environment, University of Jinan,
China</i>

<center><i><sup>b</sup></i> <i>Institute of Agricultural Resources and Regional Planning,
Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences, China</i>

<center><i>lenovolsw@126.com</i>

<p style=text-align:justify>After water-soluble nickel (Ni) is added to soils, its
bioavailability/toxicity, isotopic exchangeability, and extractability
decline over time. Two separate semi-mechanistic models (Sqrt- and
Ln-model), have been developed to predict short- and long-term aging of
Ni added to soils. To continuously predict Ni aging in one model, a
semi-mechanistic model (Erfc-model) was developed in the present study
with description of diffusion process using a complementary error
function. The developed Erfc-model could predict Ni aging processed for
short- and long-term aging continuously with regression coefficients
(R<sup>2</sup>) of 0.87 and 0.94, which were very comparable with that for Sqrt-
(0.91) and Ln-model (0.89). Based on the Erfc-model, soil pH and aging
time were two important factors that influencing Ni aging processes.
Additional 45 soils that covering short- and long aging time were
collected to validate the model. Strong correlation (R<sup>2</sup>=0.85) was
found between the measured and predicted lability of Ni in soils with
root-mean-square-error (RMSE) of 8.97%, illustrating that the Erfc-model
could continuously predict short- and long-term aging processes of Ni
added to soils. The model could be used as an alternative to normalize
ecotoxicological data for driving soil environmental quality standards.
