<center><strong>Toward understanding the binding of Zn in soils by two-dimensional</strong>

<center><strong>correlation spectroscopy and synchrotron-radiation-based</strong>

<center><strong>spectromicroscopies</strong>

<center><strong>Fusheng Sun<sup>a,b</sup></strong> and G.H. Yu<sup>*a,b<strong>

<center><i><sup>a</sup> Institute of Surface-Earth System Science, Tianjin University, China</i>

<center><i><sup>b</sup>Jiangsu Provincial Key Lab for Organic Solid Waste Utilization,
College of Resources & Environmental Sciences, Nanjing Agricultural
University, China</i>

<center><i>sunfusheng@tju.edu.cn</i>

<p style=text-align:justify>Zinc (Zn) is an essential micronutrient that is generally deficient in
soils to accommodate plant needs. Therefore, it is imperative to enhance
the concentration and availability of Zn in soils and plants through
fertilization. Currently, however, the binding characteristics and fate
of Zn in soils under various fertilization regimes remain unclear. Here,
two-dimensional correlation spectroscopy (2DCOS) and
synchrotron-radiation-based spectro-microscopies were used to identify
functional groups responsible for Zn binding in soils following
different fertilization treatments. The results showed that a 23-year
long-term manure application significantly increased the concentrations
of Zn in both soil and corn grain as compared to those having received a
traditional inorganic NPK treatment. The 2DCOS analysis of FTIR spectra
showed that aliphatic C mainly contributed to Zn binding in the
NPK-treated soils, whereas Si-O groups played a dominant role for Zn
binding in the manure-treated soils. In soil dissolved organic matter,
Zn<sup>2+</sup> was first bound with Fe-O, followed by aliphatic C and
polysaccharide C in the NPK treatment, but bound with aliphatic C-H
prior to Si-O in the manure treatment. Furthermore,
synchrotron-radiation-based FTIR and μ-XRF spectromicroscopies indicated
that the distribution of Zn, clay minerals, sesquioxides and C
functional groups was heterogeneous at the micro-scale, suggesting a
heterogeneous binding site for Zn in soils. Using μ-XRF
spectromicroscopies, a strong spatial correlation at the submicron scale
between Fe and Zn was found in soils, suggesting that Fe-bearing
minerals, likely Fe (hydr) oxides, contributed binding sites for Zn.
Together, these results indicate that combining 2DCOS and
synchrotron-radiation-based spectromicroscopies yields useful
information for exploring the binding mechanisms among micronutrients,
minerals and organic components in soils, particularly revealing how
binding sites for micronutrients in soils can be modified according to
fertilization regime.
