<center><strong>Coupling of As adsorption and redox processes of As, Fe, and Mn in
    the paddy soil</strong></center>

<center><strong>Liyang Zhang <sup>a</sup></strong> and Yuanyuan Liu <sup>a</sup></center>

<center><i><sup>a</sup> School of Earth Sciences and Engineering, Nanjing University, China</i>

<center><i>zhangliyang@smail.nju.edu.cn

<p style=text-align:justify>In the previous field surveys, the arsenic (As) concentration in many
soils from farmland ecosystems in the karst area of Guangxi exceeded the
maximum reference value of the current standard. The fate and mobility
of As in paddy ecosystems are controlled by the following processes: (1)
adsorption and desorption of As, (2) coupled redox reaction of Mn, Fe,
and As, and (3) precipitation and dissolution of As-bearing iron oxides.
It is difficult to distinguish how each individual process contributes
to the overall As releasement under field conditions. However, numerical
model can provide an alternative approach for cost-effective evaluation
of Individual progress controlling As releasement as long as the general
field parameters were given. Here, we selected two typical research
areas from a typical karst basin in Hengxian, Guangxi. One is near
Zhenlongjiang river and composed of Quaternary sediments (Yunbiao, YB)
and the other locates on the Devonian in the center of a karst basin
(Maling, ML). The basic physical and chemical properties of the soils
were characterised. Adsorption experiments of arsenite (As (III)) and
arsenate (As (V)) on the soils including adsorption kinetics, adsorption
isotherms and pH edges were conducted to evaluate the adsorption
capacity of the soil and provide parameters for the surface complexation
model (SCM). Redox cycling experiments consisting of a reduction period
(0~20d), an oxidation period (20~30d) and a second reduction period
(30~50d) were performed to simulate the coupled adsorption and redox
processes under flooding and drainage conditions in the paddy fields.
The species and concentrations of As, Fe, and Mn in the aqueous and
solid phases were analyzed at the selected time. Adsorption experiments
showed that: (1) As (V) adsorption kinetics was faster than As (III);
(2) the adsorption capacity of the soils in ML was higher than that in
YB because of difference in Fe and Mn concentrations; (3) in YB, the
adsorption capacity of the soils from the dry land was significantly
lower than that from the paddy field, whereas such phenomenon was not
observed in ML; Redox cycling experiments showed that (1)the
concentration of As in the liquid phase decreased in ML while the
concentration of As increased in YB paddy soils probably due to
difference in the contents of Mn in the first reduction period;(2) the
trends were the same afterwards, showing that the immobilization of As
was strengthened in the oxidation period and the release of As in the
second reduction period was enhanced. In the future research, the
variation of arsenic species during the redox cycles will be analyzed to
better understand the processes that will influence As releasement
during agricultural irrigation management in the paddy fields. In
addition, a numerical model coupling As adsorption and redox reactions
of As, Fe and Mn will be established to simulate As releasement during
redox cycles.

