<center><strong>The accessibility of biochar-bearing nutrients in soil as affected by
the pyrolysis conditions</strong>

<center>M. Sedláková, <strong>Jiřina Száková</strong>, P. Tlustoš

<center><i>Department of Agro-Environmental Chemistry and Plant Nutrition, Czech University of Life Sciences, Czech Republic<sup>.</sup></i>

<center><i>szakova@af.czu.cz</i>

<p style=text-align:justify>The current knowledge on the behavior of biochars in soil is ambiguous
and the soil-biochar interaction depends on many factors including soil
properties, biochar composition, specific surface, porosity, pyrolysis
temperature, etc. In this study, five samples of biochar have been
produced at different temperatures (300, 350, 400, 450 and 500 °C) from
one type of feedstock (woodfillings). Consequently, the laboratory
incubation experiment has been carried out with application of 2 % of
biochar into two different types of soil for four weeks, where the soil
samples were collected and analyzed weekly. The Mehlich III soil
extraction procedure was applied for the assessment of the accessible
portions of the nutrients, where atomic spectrometry was used for
element determination in the extracts. A determination of the essential
elements in the biochars (Ca, Cu, K, Mg, P, S, Zn) showed that the
rising temperature increased the content of these elements in the
pyrolyzed matter. It was due to the concentration effect of the
pyrolysis, because the amount of the produced biochar decreased with
increasing pyrolysis temperature. Under 500°C of pyrolyzed temperature,
the biochar yield from the same amount of feedstock represented only 60
% of mass compared to the biochar prepared at 300°C. Based on the
incubation experiment, it was found that an addition of 2 % of biochar
did not increase the pH of slightly acid soils used in the experiment,
in spite of the alkaline character of biochar. Therefore, it was found
out that although the nutrient contents in biochars increased, the
extractable proportions tended to decrease with increasing pyrolysis
temperature. For most of the nutrients determined (except Cu and K), the
results indicated better extractability of the nutrients in the soil
treated with the biochar prepared at 300°C, and, on the contrary,
opposite pattern was observed for the biochar prepared at 500°C.
Moreover, the fate of extractable nutrient proportions differed
according to the soil type and the course of incubation. Whereas the
extractable proportions of nutrients dropped down in most of cases after
one week of incubation in the slightly acidic (pH = 5.8) Luvisol with
moderate level of cation exchange capacity (CEC = 116 mmol+/kg), the
extractable contents of nutrients in the less acidic (pH = 6.4) Fluvisol
characterized by low CEC (55.6 mmol+/kg) remained unchanged during the
experiment, even increased in the end of incubation, as observed most
apparently for S. The huge number of literature sources showed that the
biochar alters the nutrient balance in the soil, and simultaneously can
be considered as a source of nutrients such as Ca, P and K. However,
these results confirmed that the potential ability of biochar to enhance
the soil nutrient status is affected by many factors connected with both
soil and biochar characteristics, where the fate of biochar-bearing
nutrients in the particular soils still remains hardly predictable.

The research was supported by the GAČR project No. 19-02836S
