<center><strong>Lead immobilization processes in soils subjected to freeze-thaw
cycles</strong>

<center><strong>Lina Du<sup>a, b</sup></strong>, M. Dyck<sup>b</sup>, W. Shotyk<sup>b</sup>, H. L. He<sup>a</sup>, J. L. Lv<sup>a</sup>, T. Lei<sup>a</sup>, J. Y. Bie<sup>a</sup>

<center><i><sup>a</sup> College of Natural Resources and
Environment, Northwest A& F University, China</i>

<center><i><sup>b</sup> Department of Renewable Resources, University of Alberta, Canada</i>

<center><i>lina.du@nwafu.edu.cn</i>

<p style=text-align:justify>Soil freeze-thaw cycles (FTCs) change soil physical and chemical
properties, however information regarding their variations resulted from
FTCs in response to sorption and desorption of heavy metal in soil is
limited. Sorption isotherms and successive desorption tests of lead (Pb)
were measured for three soils from North China (Chestnut soil, Lou soil
and Black soil) following multiple freeze-thaw cycles (0, 1, 3, 6 and 9
FTCs) of -5 ℃ for 12 h and then +5 ℃ for 12 h. The results showed that
lead adsorption dominated the sorption process in our soils and its
capacity increased by repeated FTCs. The estimated sorption capacity
represented by Freundlich affinity parameter, <i>A</i> (L<sup>β</sup> mmol<sup>1-β</sup>
kg<sup>-1</sup>), of soils for Pb with multiple FTCs was linearly correlated with
carbonate content in soils. The effects of FTCs on lead adsorption was
more dependent on carbonate and clay contents than organic matter (OM),
cation exchange capacity (CEC) and amorphous iron in soils.
Carbonate-rich soil had the highest sorption capacity for Pb among three
soils. Repeated FTCs increased pH values of soil solutions at applied Pb
concentrations &gt; 1.4 mmol L<sup>-1</sup>, which could facilitate specific
adsorption for Pb in studied soils. Cation exchange could occupy
specific adsorption sites with increasing doses in soils and it can also
be facilitated by FTCs. Our results have demonstrated the great
potential for immobilization of Pb by repeated FTCs through facilitating
both formations of inner-sphere and outer-sphere complexes. Hence, these
findings provide useful information on remediating Pb-contaminated soils
in environments that undergo frequent FTCs.
