<center><strong>Anoxic-oxic cycles influencing the interaction between Fe(II)/Fe(III)
redox couple and arsenic on the surface of reduced nontronite</strong>

<center><strong>Jing Guo<sup>a</sup></strong>, X.B. Zhang<sup>a</sup> and Q.H. Hu<sup>b</sup>

<center><i>a School of Environmental Studies & State Key Laboratory of Biogeology
and Environmental Geology, China University of Geosciences, P. R. China</i>

<center><i>b Department of Earth and Environmental Sciences, University of Texas
at Arlington, USA</i>

<center><i>aritajam@163.com</i>

<p style=text-align:justify>Anoxic-oxic cycles play a significant role on the forms and migrations
of arsenic in groundwater systems, especially in those with high
concentrations of Fe(II). Dissolved Fe(II) can absorb onto the surface
(basal plane or OH-edge groups) of iron-containing clay minerals to form
Fe(II)/Fe(III) redox couples. Researches showed that electron transfer
could happen from sorbed Fe(II) to structural Fe(III) in iron-rich clays
to impact the concentrations of As in groundwater, which leaves the
inverse way [electron transfer from structural Fe(II) to aqueous
Fe(III)] unknown. Therefore, we selected partially reduced iron-rich
nontronite (NAu-1-PR) to interact with As(III)-Fe(II) solutions through
anoxic-oxic cycles to test the above hypothesis.
The methodology included clay/Fe(III) interaction under anoxic condition
and clay/Fe(II)/As(III) interaction through anoxic-oxic cycles batch
experiments, coupled with a series of analytical techniques (e.g., XRD,
FT-IR, and XPS). During the anoxic experiments of NAu-1-PR interaction
with Fe(III), the electron transfer from structural Fe(II) to aqueous
Fe(III) added in the low pH value had been proved by XRD and XPS
evidence, as well as change of aqueous and solid iron concentration in
the system. In the anoxic-oxic transform experiment with the addition of
both Fe(II) and As(III), aqueous arsenic stayed mainly as trivalent
oxidation state in the anoxic process. When the system underwent oxic
conditions, there was a sharp decline of aqueous As(III) in parallel
with arising As(V) concentration. The structural Fe(II) fell off due to
electron transfer from structural Fe(II) in clay to aqueous Fe(III),
which is responsible for the oxidation of aqueous As(III) instead of the
oxidation by Fenton action due to the added OH-scavenger. Therefore, it
is concluded that electron transfer could happen from structural Fe(II)
in clay lattices to aqueous Fe(III) and it is the driving force for the
oxidation of As(III) to As(V) when an anoxic condition switches to oxic
one.
