<center><strong>Mitigation Effects of Exogenous Chitosan on Toxicity of Lead Stress to
Rice Seedlings</strong>

<center><strong>Xi Zhu <sup>a*</sup></strong> and Guidi Yang <sup>a</sup>

<center><i><sup>a</sup> College of Life Sciences, Fujian Agriculture and Forestry University, Fuzhou, Fujian 350002, China</i>

<center><i>E-mail: zhuxi5810@sina.com</i>

<p style=text-align:justify>The rapid economic development has brought a great test to environment.
Lead pollution is one of the more prominent environmental issues. Crops
grown on land contaminated with lead not only limit their own growth and
development, but also can transmit lead to humans through the food
chain, posing a great threat to human health. Rice is one of the most
important economic crops in China. It is very important to ensure the
normal growth of rice and reduce the transfer of lead from root to
aboveground.

<p style=text-align:justify>Chitosan (CTS) is widely sourced, safe and non-toxic. It can regulate
the growth and development of plants and improve the ability of plants
to resist stress. It is an ideal material for alleviating lead poisoning
in rice. In this study, Guangliangyou 676 was used as an experimental
material to study the effects of different concentrations of chitosan on
the growth and development of rice seedlings under water culture
conditions. At the same time, the effects of exogenous chitosan on rice
seedlings under lead stress were discussed. The growth and development,
physiological and biochemical indicators, hormone content, lead
accumulation, and the effect of ascorbate-glutathione circulation system
were researched. This study provide theoretical basis and practical
guidance for the study of rice lead poisoning regulation.
