<center><strong>Genomic Islands Confer Heavy Metal Resistance in <i>Mucilaginibacter kameinonensis</i> and <i>Mucilaginibacter rubeus</i> Isolated from a Gold/Copper Mine

<center><strong>Y. P. Li<sup> a,†</sup></strong>,N. Carraro<sup> b,†</sup>,N. Yang<sup> a</sup>,B. X. Liu<sup> a</sup>,X.
Xia<sup> c</sup>,R. W. Feng)<sup> a,</sup><i> ,Q. Saquib<sup> d</sup>,H. A. Al-Wathnani<sup> e</sup>,J. R. van der Meer<sup> b</sup> and C. Rensing<sup> a,f,</sup><i> 

<center><i><sup>a</sup></i> Institute of Environmental Microbiology, Fujian Agriculture and Forestry University, Fuzhou, China

<center><i><sup>b</sup></i> Department of Fundamental Microbiology, University of Lausanne, Lausanne, Switzerland

<center><i><sup>C</sup></i> State Key Laboratory of Agricultural Microbiology, College of Life Science and Technology, Huazhong Agricultural University, Wuhan, China

<center><i><sup>d</sup></i> Zoology Department, College of Sciences, King Saud University, P.O. Box 2455, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia

<center><i><sup>e</sup></i> Department of Botany & Microbiology, College of Sciences, P.O. Box 2455, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia

<center><i><sup>f</sup></i> Key Laboratory of Urban Environment and Health, Institute of Urban Environment, Chinese Academic of Sciences, Xiamen, China

<center><i>li343000@126.com</i>

<p style=text-align:justify>Heavy metals (HMs) are compounds that can be hazardous and impair growth
of living organisms. Bacteria have evolved the capability not only to
cope with heavy metals but also to detoxify polluted environments. Three
heavy metal-resistant strains of <i>Mucilaginibacer rubeus</i> and one
of <i>Mucilaginibacter kameinonensis</i>were isolated from the gold/copper
Zijin mining site, Longyan, Fujian, China. These strains were shown to
exhibit high resistance to heavy metals with minimal inhibitory
concentration reaching up to 3.5 mM Cu<sup>(II)</sup>, 21 mM Zn<sup>(II)</sup>, 1.2 mM
Cd<sup>(II)</sup>, and 10.0 mM As<sup>(III)</sup>. Genomes of the four strains were
sequenced by Illumina. Sequence analyses revealed the presence of a high
abundance of heavy metal resistance (HMR) determinants. One of the
strain, <i>M. rubeus</i> P2, carried genes encoding 6 putative
P<sub>IB-1</sub>-ATPase, 5 putative P<sub>IB-3</sub>-ATPase, 4 putative
Zn<sup>(II)</sup>/Cd<sup>(II)</sup> P<sub>IB-4</sub> type ATPase, and 16 putative
resistance-nodulation-division (RND)-type metal transporter systems.
Moreover, the four genomes contained a high abundance of genes coding
for putative metal binding chaperones. Analysis of the close vicinity of
these HMR determinants uncovered the presence of clusters of genes
potentially associated with mobile genetic elements. These loci included
genes coding for tyrosine recombinases (integrases) and subunits of
mating pore (type 4 secretion system), respectively allowing
integration/excision and conjugative transfer of numerous genomic
islands. Further in silico analyses revealed that their genetic
organization and gene products resemble the <i>Bacteroides</i>integrative and
conjugative element CTnDOT. These results highlight the pivotal role of
genomic islands in the acquisition and dissemination of adaptive traits,
allowing for rapid adaption of bacteria and colonization of hostile
environments.
