<center><strong>The remarkable effect of oxygen vacancy defects
in manganese oxides on oxidation of As(III) to As(V)</strong>

<center><strong>Jingtao Hou <sup>a</sup></strong>

<center><i><sup>a</sup> College of Resources and Environment, Huazhong Agricultural
University, China</i>

<center><i>jthou@mail.hzau.edu.cn</i>

<p style=text-align:justify>Manganese oxides, as one of the soil active minerals, are ubiquitous in
terrestrial environments. Due to the influence of aging temperature,
aging time, and impurity, it inevitably existed defects with different
types and concentrations (e. g., oxygen vacancy defect) in manganese
oxide, which may affect the fate of heavy metal in environment. Though
many literatures have been reported for arsenic removal using manganese
oxide, few works focus on the effect of defect in oxidation/adsorption
of arsenic on manganese oxides. In this study, manganese oxides with
tunable oxygen vacancy defect (OVD) concentrations are prepared by a
one-step redox reaction between MnNO<sub>3</sub> and KMnO<sub>4</sub> at different
temperature. The result of batch experiment of As(III) oxidation reveals
that OVD has considerable effect on As(III) oxidation on manganese
oxides. Increasing oxygen vacancy defects concentration in manganese
oxide increases the specific As(III) oxidation rate from 0.12 to 0.22
μmol m<sup>-2</sup> min<sup>-1</sup>. The origin of the tremendous effect of OVD on
As(III) oxidation on manganese oxide is experimentally and theoretically
investigated. The results reveal that the presence of OVD in manganese
oxide not only makes the adsorption of As(III) on OMS-2 more favorable,
but also accelerates the charge transfer from As(III) to Mn atom, thus
significantly improving the As(III) oxidation activity. The present work
provides a new insight into the effect of OVD in manganese oxide on the
fate of arsenic species in environment.
