<center><strong>Oxidation and removal of As(III) from soil using a novel magnetic
nanocomposite derived-biomass wastes</strong>

<center><strong>Qian Jin,</strong> Jianghu Cui and Fangbai Li

<center><i>Guangdong Key Laboratory of Integrated Agro-environmental Pollution
Control and Management, Guangdong Institute of Eco-environmental Science
& Technology, China</i>

<center><i>13031325800@163.com</i>

<p style=text-align:justify>A novel biomass-derived magnetic nanocomposite, named as BMN, was
fabricated by one-step pyrolysis process. BMN showed excellent As(III)
removal performances such as high adsorption capacity (16.23 mg/g),
collectability of magnetism, reusability and low cost. Importantly, when
BMN was loaded in sponges with a microporous structure, the
collectability of BMN in soil was improved. The system of BMN and
sponges could efficiently remove As(III) from soil and the resulting
BMN/sponge/As(III) could easily separate from soil using a magnet. In
addition, when BMN was loaded on filter paper, the system of BMN and
filter papers could be conveniently used as an excellent filter layer to
control the migration of As(III) in soil. Pot incubations indicated that
BMN could increase the pH value of soil and decreased the concentration
of available arsenic in soil. Wherein, the As(III) ions removal by BMN
contained three pathways: (1) adsorption of As(III) anions through
electrostatic attraction; (2) oxidation of As(III) to As(V) by reactive
oxygen; and (3) immobilization of As(III) and As(V) by iron
nanoparticles. Therefore, this work provides an executable approach to
remove As(III) from soil with low cost, which also promoted the recovery
and utilization of palm wastes.
