<center><strong>Transient Mobilization of Zinc from Ferrihydrite at Redox Interfaces</strong>

<center><strong>Jeffrey G. Catalano<sup>a</sup></strong>, J.S. Yan<sup>a</sup>, H. Chen<sup>a</sup> and K. Wang<sup>a</sup>

<center><i><sup>a</sup> Department of Earth and Planetary Sciences, Washington University,
U.S.A.</i>

<center><i>catalano@wustl.edu </i>

<p style=text-align:justify>Iron oxide minerals are ubiquitous in nature and often have great
influence on the fate and availability of trace elements. Zn is an
essential trace element for biological processes, but can be toxic at
higher concentration. Zn cycling and availability can be affected by its
adsorption on, incorporation in, and release from iron oxides.
Ferrihydrite is a metastable nanocrystalline iron oxide and transforms
to more crystalline phases when exposed to dissolved Fe(II) under anoxic
condition. While such reactions have been widely investigated, the
effects of ferrihydrite phase transformations on solid-associated trace
element speciation and how such elements impact the resulting mineral
products are poorly studied. In addition, it is unknown whether Zn
repartitioning during such transformations fractionates trace element
stable isotopes. To better understand the behavior of Zn during
Fe(II)-induced ferrihydrite transformation, we have investigated the
phase transformations of Zn-substituted (2 mol%) ferrihydrite at pH 7
under different Fe(II) concentrations at reaction times up to 40 days.
X-ray diffraction patterns of the reaction products reveal that low
Fe(II) concentration (0.2 mM) favors the formation of hematite,
lepidocrocite, and goethite; whereas high Fe(II) concentration (1 mM)
promotes the production of magnetite, lepidocrocite, and goethite. Both
transformations processes are associated with the transient release of
Zn to solution, which during aging is taken up by the mineral products.
Rietveld refinement of the XRD data shows a progressive transformation
from ferrihydrite to other iron oxides, with new phase nucleating within
a few days but changes continuing over the entire duration of study.
Control experiments with Zn-free ferrihydrite observe no hematite
formation, indicating that Zn alters ferrihydrite transformation
pathways. EXAFS spectroscopy shows that the coordination of
solid-associated Zn changed from tetrahedral to a mixture of tetrahedral
and octahedral during the transformations. Despite these coordination
changes, ferrihydrite transformations produce only a minor fractionation
of Zn stable isotopes. This work shows that iron oxide mineralogical
transformations occurring at redox interfaces may transiently solubilize
trace elements such as zinc. Under conditions with substantial advective
fluid flow, this may facilitate mobilization and transport. The minimal
isotopic fraction observed suggest that such mobilization may not leave
detectable signatures in the remaining iron oxides. More broadly, this
study builds on a growing body of work demonstrating the unexpected
mobility of iron oxide-associated trace elements under dynamic redox
conditions, and raises questions about the long-term viability of
coprecipitation as a method of contaminant remediation.
