<center><strong>Impact of Ca<sup>2+</sup> and SO<sub>4</sub><sup>2-</sup> on the reduction of Cr(VI) by <i>Penicillium oxalicum</i> SL2</strong>

<center>Y.T. Luo<sup>a</sup>, B.H. Ye<sup>b</sup>, J.E. Ye<sup>a</sup> and <strong>Jiyan Shi<sup>a,*</sup><strong>

<center><i><sup>a</sup> Department of Environmental Engineering, College of Environmental
and Resource Sciences, Zhejiang University, China</i>

<center><i><sup>b</sup> Chengbang Eco-Environment Co., Ltd. China</i>

<center><i>shijiyan@zju.edu.cn</i>

<p style=text-align:justify>Microorganisms are effective for decontamination of Cr(VI) in
contaminated wastewater. However, some ions in soils may affect the
growth and metabolism of microorganisms and influence the remediation
effectiveness of Cr(VI) in contaminated soil sequentially. Here, fungi
<i>Penicillium oxalicum</i> SL2 was used to investigate the impact of Ca<sup>2+</sup>
and SO<sub>4</sub><sup>2-</sup> on Cr(VI) reduction process. Results showed that addition
of Ca<sup>2+</sup> and SO<sub>4</sub><sup>2-</sup> increased the biomass of <i>P. oxalicum</i> SL2 and
promoted the secretion of oxalic acid and citric acid, thus accelerating
the reduction of Cr(VI). The maxmium rate of Cr(VI) reduction was 3.17
mgL<sup>-1</sup>h<sup>-1</sup> (40 mg L<sup>-1</sup> Ca<sup>2+</sup> treated) and 2.58 mgL<sup>-1</sup>h<sup>-1</sup> (2000 mg
L<sup>-1</sup> SO<sub>4</sub><sup>2-</sup> treated), respectively. The results of scanning electron
microscope (SEM) showed that the hyphae of <i>P. oxalicum</i> SL2 were
thicker and grew better with the addition of Ca<sup>2+</sup> and SO<sub>4</sub><sup>2-</sup> than
those in the control group. Furthermore, regular shaped calcium oxalate
crystals were detected in <i>P. oxalicum</i> SL2 mycelia in Ca<sup>2+</sup> treated
goup through electron dispersion spectroscopy (EDS) and X-Ray powder
diffraction (XRD) analyses. Meanwhile, the results of X-ray absorption
near-edge spectroscopy (XANES) evidenced an increace of cysteine,
cystine and glutathione (GSH) in <i>P. oxalicum</i> SL2 mycelia with the
addition of SO<sub>4</sub><sup>2-</sup>, which might induce the reduction of Cr(VI). In
conclusion, addition of Ca<sup>2+</sup> could reduce the damage of Cr(VI) to <i>P.
oxalicum</i> SL2 by maintaining the integrity of cell wall, and the
transformation of sulfur from SO<sub>4</sub><sup>2-</sup> to cysteine, cysteine and GSH
during restoration process was conducive to elevate the reduction
efficiency of Cr(VI).

<p style=text-align:justify><strong>Key words:</strong> <i>Penicillium oxalicum</i> SL2; Cr(VI) reduction;
transformation
