<center><strong>Microbial community functional diversity in chlorinated hydrocarbons
contaminated site and evaluation of biodegradation efficiency</strong>

<center><strong>Chi Zhu,</strong> CS Qu, MC Zhang, AJ Cai, D Wang, S Wang<sup>*</sup>

<center><i>Key Laboratory of Environmental Engineering, Jiangsu Provincial Academy
of Environmental Science, China</i>

<center><i>wangshui@jsaes.com, zhuchi126@126.com</i>

<p style=text-align:justify>Due to the rapidly developing urbanization in China, various strategical
transformations of industry structure and city layout are promoted by
local governments, uncovering the issues of numerous remained sites
consist of abandoned industrial buildings and resources that have been
facing the situation of relocation. A large number of heavily polluting
industrial enterprises originally in the main urban area have been moved
into industrial parks.

<p style=text-align:justify>Along the long-time production history, a large amount of toxic and
harmful substances are remained in the site soil by some heavily
polluting enterprises, because of improper operations, leakages,
insufficient environmental supervisions and some other reasons,
adversely affecting the local ecological environment, the health of
local people as well as land redevelopment and utilization. Chlorinated
hydrocarbons are common pollutants in the soil of chemical pollution
sites in Jiangsu Province. In addition to chemical detection and
analysis methods, biological diagnosis is also an important means to
assess the environmental risks associated with organically contaminated
soils. Soil and groundwater microbial community diversity is very
sensitive to changes in soil chemical properties and can be used as an
important biological indicator to measure soil and groundwater quality
and to assess the sustainability of soil ecosystems. The site pollution
habitat is a special habitat composed of site
pollutants-soil-groundwater-microorganisms. A series of physical and
chemical changes caused by external pollutants will occur in the soil
and groundwater, and profoundly affect the environmental and biological
properties of the site.

<p style=text-align:justify>We attempted to investigate microbial community responses to chlorinated
hydrocarbons-contaminated sites, and identify distinct assemblages of
bacteria and fungi capable of thriving in chlorinated hydrocarbons-rich
environment use high-throughput sequencing technology. Therefore, the
spatial variations of the microbial community structure collected from
varying concentrations of chlorinated hydrocarbons within the
contaminated site and identify microbial capable of chlorinated
hydrocarbons degradation in groundwater environments were evaluated.
Across all samples, a total of 3,840 unique operational taxonomic units
(OTUs) were identified, with 6 taxa having strong correlations with
increased chlorinated hydrocarbons concentration. Putative chlorinated
hydrocarbons degrades such as <i>Brevundimonas</i>, <i>Rhizobium</i> and
<i>Pseudonmonas</i> were present within groundwater and soil across all
levels of chlorinated hydrocarbons contamination. In addition, 652 OTUs
were obtained through our ITS rRNA gene survey, belong to 6 phyla, 16
classes, 35 orders, 67 families and 94 genera respectively. However, by
principal component analysis of the OTU of the fungus in the control
group within different contaminated environments, changes of fungi
abundance and diversity in varying concentration of contaminated soil
and groundwater environments are not significant. The results found that
bacterial community structure shifted across chlorinated hydrocarbons
contaminated level such that increasing chlorinated hydrocarbons
contamination might enrich unique chlorinated hydrocarbons-degrading
assemblages especially within these groundwater environments.
