<center><strong>Remediation of cadmium contaminated soil using phytogenic iron oxide
nanoparticles</strong>

<center><strong>Jiajiang Lin</strong>, Z. Chen

<center><i>School of Environmental Science and Engineering, Fujian Normal
University, China</i>

<center><i>jjlin@fjnu.edu.cn</i>

<p style=text-align:justify>In recent years, soil heavy metal cadmium (Cd) contamination has emerged
as a serious environmental problem in China. The remediation of Cd
contaminated soil has become the focus of research. This research
provides a stabilization technology to in situ remediation of Cd soil.
Phytogenic iron oxide nanoparticles (PION) was used as the stabilizer
for the stabilization of Cd in paddy soil. Firstly, the synthesis and
characterization of PION; Secondly, the effect of different dosages of
PION on the stabilization of Cd in soil; Thirdly, the stabilization of
Cd under both aerobic and anaerobic conditions were investigated.
Scanning electron microscope-maping (SEM-maping), transmission electron
microscope-energy dispersive spectrometer (TEM-EDS), X-ray diffraction
(XRD), fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (FTIR), X-ray
photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) was used to characterize the PION. The
results show that PION is complex of nanoscale iron oxide and organic
carbon chain, which including many organic functional groups, such as
-C-O-, -C=O, -OH, -S=O and -NH<sub>2</sub>. These structures have strong
complexation ability to heavy metal cations. PION can effectively
immobilize Cd in soil under both aerobic and anaerobic conditions, and
the efficiency increased with the increase of PION dosage. The
stabilization of Cd in flooded soil was much higher than in 50% water
hold capacity (WHC). CaCl<sub>2</sub> extractable Cd reduced by 77% and 85%. PION
increased the activity of urease and catalase under 50% WHC condition,
while had no significant effect on them under flooded condition. In
contrast, PION enhanced the activity of invertase under flooded
condition, whereas had no effects on it under 50% WHC. PION
significantly increase the soil pH value, which an increase in pH
favours the stabilization of Cd. The content of 0.5 M HCl extractable Fe
(II) and amorphous Fe in flooded treatment was significantly higher than
that of 50% WHC treatment. However, the content of
dithionite-citrate-bicarbonate extractable Fe in 50% WHC treatment was
higher than that of flooded treatment. This study provided new insights
into the potential effects of PION applications for practical Cd
stabilization in contaminated soils.
