<center><strong>Evaluation of red mud based binder for immobilization of copper, lead and zinc </strong>

<center><strong>Hao Pan<sup>a</sup>,</strong> F. Wang<sup>a*</sup>

<center><i><sup>a</sup>.Institute of Geotechnical Engineering, School of Transportation,
Southeast University, China</i>

<center><i>834732872@qq.com</i>

<p style=text-align:justify>In this study, red mud and phosphorus gypsum is compared with Portland
cent (PC), red mud-fly ash etc. in immobilizing copper, lead and zinc.
Copper, lead and zinc-doped pastes and mortars were prepared with a
metal to binder ratio at 1%. Samples were cured for 7d, 14d and 28d. The
unconfined compressive strength (UCS), leachate pH and the leachate
concentrations of copper, lead and zinc were measured and analyzed. The
UCS results show that red mud-phosphogypsum treated samples produce
higher strength than these treated by red mud-fly ash, and PC. The
results of TCLP tests revealed that the immobilisation degree of these
pastes depend on their leachate pH. The leachate pH of red
mud-phosphogypsum pastes is ~ 6, hence the concentrations of lead,
copper and zinc leached from red mud-based binders cannot meet the China
Ministry of Environment Protection (MEP) regulatory limit at 100mg/L,
100mg/L and 5mg/L, respectively. The additional quicklime or PC is able
to increase the leachate pH. It is noted that the leachate
concentrations of copper, lead and zinc from red mud-phosphorus
gypsum-cement pastes are much lower than that of the China Ministry of
Environment Protection (MEP) regulatory limit. With the increase of the
curing time, the unconfined compressive strength and the leaching
concentrations of these pastes showed a slightly increasing trend.
