<center><strong>Adsorption process characteristics of Cu<sup>2+</sup>, Zn<sup>2+</sup>, Mn<sup>2+</sup> on natural diatomite in liquid/solid system</strong>

<center><strong>Chunya Ma<sup>a</sup></strong>, Z. Liu<sup>a</sup>, J. Zhu<sup>a</sup> and P. Wang<sup>a</sup>

<center><i>a College of Environmental Science and Engineering, Central South
University of Forestry and Technology, China</i>

<center><i>chunya159263@163.com</i>

<p style=text-align:justify>The main aim of this work is to comprehensively
and fully understand the adsorption process characteristic of Cu<sup>2+</sup>,
Zn<sup>2+</sup>, Mn<sup>2+</sup> on natural diatomite in liquid/solid system, and to
provide reliable theoretical basis for natural diatomite modification
and application. Cu, Zn, Mn are the essential elements for the human
body and plants which involved in the metabolism, but too much will be
detrimental to them both. Up to now, there are many techniques which
have been applied to remove metal ions from waste water, among which
adsorption exhibits a particularly competitive and effective advantage
for heavy metal’s removal. Diatomite is a kind of biogenic siliceous
rock which was formed by the initial diagenesis and preliminary
diagenesis of diatom. Because of small bulk density, large specific
surface area, large quantity of micropores and its well-developed pore
structure which bears a large number of active groups and a certain
negative charge, diatomite exhibits the potential material for
adsorption of heavy metals. There are a lot of research studying the
adsorption of diatomite on Cu<sup>2+</sup>, Zn<sup>2+</sup>, Mn<sup>2+</sup>, much of them,
however, are mainly focus on the influence factors of adsorption and the
brief discussion on the kinetics of adsorption rather than exploring the
characteristics in adsorption process, which make the lack of sufficient
and reliable theoretical basis about the modification and application of
diatomite adsorbing Cu<sup>2+</sup>, Zn<sup>2+</sup>, Mn<sup>2+</sup>. In view of this, the
adsorption conditions, properties, behavior and characteristics of
Cu<sup>2+</sup>, Zn<sup>2+</sup>, Mn<sup>2+</sup> on diatomite surface were systematically studied
throuhg static adsorption test. The characteristic results illustrate
that adsorption density of Cu<sup>2+</sup>, Zn<sup>2+</sup>, Mn<sup>2+</sup> on natural diatomite
increase first and then decrease with increasing diatomite adding
quantity and ion initial concentration, increase constantly with
solution initial pH, and the effect of solution temperature on ion
adsorption process is not obvious. The most suitable isotherm models for
describing adsorption of Cu<sup>2+</sup>, Zn<sup>2+</sup>, Mn<sup>2+</sup> onto natural diatomite
are Langmuir, Tenkin and Freundlich; the adsorption of each ion onto
natural diatomite is mainly a physical process; the adsorption reaction
is easy to happen, and the control step of adsorption process is
adsorption reaction happened in microporous. It can also be found that,
the adsorption of Cu<sup>2+</sup>, Zn<sup>2+</sup>, Mn<sup>2+</sup> onto natural diatomite can
reach equilibrium in forty minutes, the adsorption kinetics fit well
with the pseudo-second-order model, and the adsorption is spontaneous,
endothermic and disorder enhancing. The results can provide theoretical
basis and reference for the modification, application and other similar
research of diatomite.
