<center><strong>Spatio-temporal changes of heavy metals in soil-rice grain system and management zones identification for further target remediation to address the effects of food safety and health risk</strong>

<center><strong>Mingjiang He<sup>a</sup></strong>, H.R. Shen<sup>a</sup>, Z.T. LI<sup>a</sup>, X.M. Liu<sup>a</sup> and J.M. Xu<sup>a</sup>

<center><i><sup>a</sup> College of Environmental and Resource Sciences, Zhejiang Provincial
Key Laboratory of Agricultural Resources and Environment, Zhejiang University, China</i>

<center><i>hemj@zju.edu.cn</i>

<p style=text-align:justify>Farmland soil heavy metal contamination could pose potential risks to
ecosystems, food safety and human health ultimately. Regional researches
on the long-term monitoring of heavy metals in a soil-rice grain system,
changed with environmental policy adjustment, have been hindered by
limited detailed data. In this study, we collected 169 paired paddy rice
grain and corresponding soil samples from a former intensive
electronic-waste dismantling region to survey the current status of
heavy metal contamination, and to reveal the temporal trends over the
past decade based on the previous data obtained in 2006 and 2011.
Moderate contaminations of Cd, Cu, Zn and Ni were observed in soil
currently. Furthermore, 20.7% of rice grain samples exceeded the Cd
threshold value. Cd, Cu, Zn and Pb shared the similar spatial
distribution pattern with higher concentrations in northwest, which were
contrary to Cr, Ni and As. Risk assessment indicated that much attention
is required for the carcinogenic risk of Cr, Cd and As and
non-carcinogen risk of Cr. Combining the spatial distribution of heavy
metals in soil and rice grains, and the potential ecological risks, with
the human health risks, the middle-west rice paddies were identified and
proposed as priority areas. Percentage of soil Pb, Cd and Zn decreased
in most area and slightly increased in northwest and east. Cu decreased
in southwest and increased in central part, while Ni slightly increased
in the whole region between 2006 and 2016. With the scrutiny of strict
environmental policy, Cd still remained relatively constant levels in
soil and rice grains during the last decade, which confirmed that the
heavy metals were persisted over the long duration. Target sustainable
and ongoing green remediation methods should be adopted urgently in
specific area to guarantee food safety and human health for local
residents.
