<center><strong>Distinct effect of humic acid on ferrihydrite colloid-facilitated transport of arsenic in
saturated media at different pH</strong>

<center><strong>Jie Ma<sup>a, b, c, d,*</sup></strong>, Huaming Guo<sup>c</sup>, Liping Weng<sup>a</sup>, Yongtao
Li<sup>a, b</sup>, Mei Lei<sup>d</sup>, Yali Chen<sup>a</sup>

<center><i><sup>a</sup> Agro-Environmental Protection Institute, Ministry of Agriculture, China</i>

<center><i><sup>b</sup> College of Natural Resources and Environment, South China Agricultural University, China</i>

<center><i><sup>c</sup> State Key Laboratory of Biogeology and Environmental Geology, China University of Geosciences, China</i>

<center><i><sup>d</sup> Institute of Geographic Sciences and Natural Resources Research, Chinese Academy of Sciences, China</i>

<center><i>email address: majie@caas.cn</i>

<p style="text-align:justify">Arsenic (As) contamination of soil, surface water and groundwater is
widespread in the world due to mining exploitation and hydrogeological
occurrence. Arsenic mobility increased in liquid phase due to
association with FH<sub>C</sub> through formation of inner-sphere complexation.
Moreover, dissolved organic matter (DOM) or organic colloids regulate
the transport and fate of colloid and colloid-associated
contaminants. Humic acid (HA), the most representative organic matter in
soils, are important in controlling the distance of FH<sub>C</sub> transport and
deposition position in porous media. However, little is known about
effects of humic acid colloid (HA<sub>C</sub>) and FH<sub>C</sub> interaction on
transport and deposition
of As in porous media. Co-transport of HA<sub>C</sub>-FH<sub>C</sub> and As at different
pH was systematically investigated by monitoring breakthrough curves
(BTCs) in saturated sand columns. Colloid and solute transport models
were used to reveal mechanisms of As transport with HA<sub>C</sub>-FH<sub>C</sub> in
porous media. Our data indicated that the interaction between HA<sub>C</sub> and
FH<sub>C</sub> highly influenced the fate of FH<sub>C</sub>-associated As. Although HA<sub>C</sub>
with high concentrations enhanced FH<sub>C</sub> transport and further
facilitated transport of FH<sub>C</sub>-associated As, an excess of HA<sub>C</sub>
occupied the adsorption sites of FH<sub>C</sub> and thus decreased As
co-transport with the mixed HA<sub>C</sub>-FH<sub>C</sub> colloids. Humic acid
colloid-enhanced FH<sub>C</sub> transport and As adsorption on the mixed colloids
were controlled by environmental pH. Although, under the alkaline
condition, HA<sub>C</sub>
significantly enhanced FH<sub>C</sub> and As transport, more As was adsorbed on
the mixed colloid and co-transported under slightly alkaline or neutral
pH conditions when chain-shaped HA<sub>C</sub> was present. With decreasing pH,
As was gradually co-deposited with FH<sub>C</sub> since HA<sub>C</sub> was transformed to
sphere-shaped one. The fate of As changed from co-transport with
HA<sub>C</sub>-FH<sub>C</sub> to co-deposition when environmental pH further decreased.
Future research should focus on applying surface complexation models,
such as charge distribution multisite surface complexation (CD-MUSIC)
and ligand charge distribution (LCD) models, and reactive transport
models to quantify colloid-facilitated transport of contaminants in
order to understand the micro-interfacial process and co-transport
mechanisms of colloids and contaminants.
