<center><strong>Oral bioavailability of heavy metals in house dust: method development
and implications for human health</strong>

<center><strong>Hongbo Li <sup>a</sup></strong>, D. Zhao <sup>a</sup>, A. L. Juhasz <sup>b</sup> and Lena Q. Ma <sup>a,c</sup>

<center><i><sup>a</sup> School of the Environment, Nanjing University, China</i>

<center><i><sup>b</sup>Future Industries Institute, University of South Australia, Australia</i>

<center><i><sup>c</sup> Soil and Water Science Department, University of Florida, United States</i>

<center><i>hongboli@nju.edu.cn</i>

<p style="text-align:justify">Strong association has been observed between children blood Pb and Pb in
house dust, suggesting the contribution of house dust ingestion to metal
exposure to children. However, to accurately assess the health risk,
there is a need to determine oral metal bioavailability in house dust.
In addition, appropriateness of in vitro bioaccessibility assays as a
surrogate of metal RBA has not been elucidated for house dust. Following
method development, the bioavailability needs to be incorporated into
risk assessment. For in vitro bioaccessibility method development, we
collected house dust samples from uncontaminated areas across China and
Pb/Zn mining areas, Hunan, China. In vivo mouse bioassays were applied
to measure As, Pb, and Cd relative bioavailability (RBA), which were
compared to bioaccessibility measured using in vitro assays including
SBRC, IVG, DIN, PBET, and UBM to determine the most suitable in vitro
method as a surrogate of animal bioassays. In addition,
bioavailability/bioaccessibility measurement was coupled with the stable
isotope ratio technique to identify dominant exposure pathway for
children with elevated blood Pb living in Zhuhang, China, a town
characterized with intensive wire rope production and residents living
in mining/smelting districts, Hunan, China. For house dust from
uncontaminated areas, Pb and As RBA was 29–60% and 22–87% based on in
vivo mouse blood assay. When validated against in vivo RBA data, SBRC
and DIN methods had the strongest potential to predict As and Pb
bioavailability in the dust samples. However, for contaminated house
dust, As and Pb RBA (7.64–37% and 7.21–52.1%) based on mouse liver and
kidney assay was significantly lower, with Cd RBA being firstly reported
to be 20.3–94.3%, suggesting the influences of contamination source on
metal(loid) bioavailability. Among bioaccessibility methods, the single
gastric phase of the UBM method could be used to predict bioavailability
of co-contaminants in house dust from mining/smelting areas. For
children in Zhuhang, when stable isotopic composition of children blood
Pb was compared to that of total Pb in the environmental medias (house
dust, soil, PM10, vegetables, rice, and drinking water), there was no
match between blood Pb and Pb in any environmental media. However, when
determined for bioaccessible Pb using the SBRC method, Pb isotopic
composition in house dust showed a close agreement with blood Pb,
suggesting that coupling stable isotope technique and bioavailable Pb
analysis provided a more robust approach for identifying Pb exposure
pathways than total Pb determinations. For residents living in
mining/smelting site, As, Cd, and Pb exposure via house dust ingestion
was compared to that via rice consumption based on RBA. Interestingly,
for adults, rice was the main As contributor, while house dust ingestion
was the major As contributor to children. However, for both adults and
children, rice was the main source for Cd exposure, while house dust was
the predominant Pb contributor. To confirm this, an overlap of stable Pb
isotopic composition was observed between Pb in house dust and hair from
the residents, while Pb signals in rice was different from hair Pb.
