<center><strong>Heavy metal pollution in agricultural soils and health risk assessment
in southwest Guizhou, China</strong>

<center><strong>Liang Ma<sup>a, c</sup></strong>, Z. P. Ning<sup>a</sup>, H.Y. Chen<sup>a,c</sup>, Y.Z. Liu<sup>a</sup> and T.F.
Xiao <sup>b*</sup>

<center><i><sup>a</sup> State Key Laboratory of Environmental Geochemistry, Institute of
Geochemistry, Chinese Academy of Sciences, China</i>

<center><i><sup>b</sup> School of Environmental Science and Engineering, Guangzhou
University, China</i>

<center><i><sup>C</sup> University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, China</i>

<center><i>maliang@mail.gyig.ac.cn</i>

<p style="text-align:justify">Heavy metal pollution in sulfide mineralized area was increasingly
concerned. In the present study, the pollution characteristics and
health risk of Hg, As, Tl and Sb were assessed based on heavy metal
concentrations in soils and crops in the Tl-rich sulphide mineralized
Lanmuchang area, using the enrichment factor and potential ecological
risk index that were calculated to quantitatively assess the potential
hazards of Hg, As, Tl and Sb. The results showed that average
concentrations of Hg, Tl and As exceed the threshold value of Chinese
Environmental Quality Standard for soils. The potential ecological risk
index showed that pollution levels were in the order of Tl＞Hg＞As＞Sb
for agricultural soils. The enrichment factor of heavy metals ranked in
the order of Hg＞Tl＞As＞Sb in soils close to the Tl-rich sulfide mine.
Local mining activities have significant influenced on heavy metal
accumulation in soils and crops. Moreover, human health risk assessment
indicated that noncarcinogenic values of Hg, As and Sb exceeded the
threshold values, and carcinogenic value for As was higher than the safe
value (1×10<sup>-6</sup>). The main exposure pathway of Hg, As and Sb for both
children and adults is ingestion of soil particles. Calculation of heavy
metal ingestion via crops showed that <i>Brassica Oleracea</i> might have
potential health risk because of high enrichment for Tl. The results may
provide basic knowledge and guidelines for metal pollution remediation
in this area.
