<center><strong>Development of soil adsorption models for Ni and Cu and their application to plant uptake</strong>

<center><strong>Les J. Evans<sup>a</sup></strong>, S.J. Barabash<sup>b</sup> and X. Gu<sup>c</sup>

<center><i><sup>a</sup> School of Environmental Sciences, University of Guelph, Ontario, Canada</i>

<center><i><sup>b</sup> EcoMetrix Inc., Ontario, Canada</i>

<center><i><sup>c</sup> School of the Environment, Nanjing University, China</i>

<center><i>levans@uoguelph.ca</i>

<p style="text-align:justify">In order to predict the behaviour of toxic elements in contaminated
soils, it is necessary to understand both the soluble forms of the
elements in solution and the nature and amount of solid phases with
which the element is associated. This information will aid in predicting
the bio-availability of the toxic element and will also help in
describing its fate in both terrestrial and aquatic ecosystems. A
site-specific soil adsorption model was developed that would estimate
the amounts of soluble Cu and Ni in representative acidic soils from
Sudbury, Ontario, a historical mining region of Canada. Binding
constants for Cu and Ni with organic matter and clay were determined
experimentally while the binding constants for the dissolved species and
with iron oxides were taken from available literature values. The models
were validated by comparing determined values of dissolved Cu and Ni
with those predicted by the adsorption models. The models fit all the
data well, except for some soils where the fit was not as good at pH
values above approximately 6.0. The models were tested by investigating
Ni and Cu concentrations in a number of plant bio-receptors from the
Sudbury area and correlating these concentrations against three
alternative ways of estimating the metal concentrations in the soils -
the total concentration as determined in an aqua-regia extract (Total
soil Cu and Ni); the soluble concentration at pH 2 (Bio-accessible soil
Cu and Ni); and the concentration of soluble Cu and Ni as estimated by
the soil adsorption models (Modeled soil Cu and Ni). Naturally occurring
plant sample were taken from transects around three smelters. The
regression coefficients for the pooled Ni and Cu concentrations in these
plant samples showed a consistent improvement from Total soil Cu and Ni
to Bio-accessible soil Cu and Ni to Modeled soil copper. A range of
garden vegetables were also sampled and Ni concentrations compared with
the three methods of measuring soil Ni. Results were similar to those
for the naturally occurring plant samples for Ni. These results
indicated that the soil adsorption models represent a significant
improvement over the concentrations measured by aqua-regia digestion in
predicting metal uptake in a range of vegetative species sampled from
the Sudbury area.
