<center><strong>Integrating bioavailability and soil aging in the derivation of cadmium thresholds for
agricultural soil using crop species sensitivity distributions</strong>

<center><strong>Lijun Li <sup>a</sup></strong> and Y. Ma <sup>a*</sup>

<center><i>Institute of Agricultural Resources and Regional Planning, </i>

<center><i>Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences, China</i>

<center><i>lilijun@caas.cn</i>

<p style="text-align:justify">It is imperative to derive an appropriate cadmium (Cd) threshold for
rice to ensure the Cd concentration of rice grains meet the food safety
standard. In this paper, a robust methodology is presented, taking the
variations of aging time and cultivars and soil properties into account
to derive soil thresholds for cadmium (Cd) applying species sensitivity
distribution (SSD). 39 cultivars of rice were selected to investigate
their sensitivity differences for accumulating Cd. Empirical soil–plant
transfer model was used to normalize the bioaccumulation data of
non-model cultivars. The added hazardous concentration for protecting
95% of the cultivars not exceeding the food quality standard (HC5add)
were then calculated from the Burr Type III function fitted SSD curves.
The derived soil Cd thresholds based on the added risk approach were
presented as continuous or scenario criteria depending on the
combination of soil pH and OC. The prediction model for HC5add was
applied to the data from the field experimental sites to check its
validity and applicability. Most of the soil Cd safety threshold in the
8 field experimental sites lay below the 1:1 line and all of them were
within the 2-fold prediction interval. This work provides information
for the establishment of soil environmental quality standards regarding
Cd contamination.
