<center><strong>Mercury methylation and demethylation by anaerobic microorganisms in
rice paddy soil</strong>

<center>Qingqing Wu<sup>a,b</sup>, <strong>Haiyan Hu<sup>a,c,*</sup>, Bo Meng<sup>a,*</sup></strong>, B.
Wang<sup>d</sup>, J. Liu<sup>b</sup>, A. G. Bravo<sup>e</sup>, K. Bishop<sup>d</sup>, S. Bertilsson<sup>c</sup> and
X. Feng<sup>a</sup>

<center><i><sup>a</sup> State Key Laboratory of Environmental Geochemistry, Institute of
Geochemistry, Chinese<i>

<center><i>Academy of Sciences, China<i>

<center><i><sup>b</sup> School of Earth Sciences, China University of Geosciences, China<i>

<center><i><sup>c</sup> Department of Ecology and Genetics, Limnology and Science for Life
Laboratory, Uppsala University, Sweden<i>

<center><i><sup>d</sup> Department of Forest Ecology and Management, Swedish University of
Agricultural Sciences, Sweden<i>

<center><i><sup>e</sup> Institute of Marine Sciences, Spanish National Research Council
CSIC, Spain.<i>

<center><i>*H.Hu，huhaiyan@mail.gyig.ac.cn; B. Meng，mengbo@vip.skleg.cn</i>

<p style="text-align:justify">Mercury has become a high profile contaminant across the world, with
methylmercury being the species of most concern due to its high toxicity
and enhanced bioaccumulation in aquatic and terrestrial food webs.
Eating rice is one of the major routes of human MeHg exposure. As a
special type of wetland with seasonal flooding, rice paddy is
demonstrated to be a hotspot of Hg methylation, providing the major
source of MeHg accumulation by rice during the growing period. Until
now, information on the identity and significance of various microbial
groups involved in mercury methylation in rice paddy soil is scarce.
Here we used a combination of incubation experiments with specific
metabolic inhibitors and/or stimulants and Hg stable isotopes, to
unreveal the methylation processes and identify the microbial guilds
involved in Hg formation in rice paddy soil from an abandoned Hg mining
area (SK), an artificial Hg minging area (GX) and a background area
(HX). The results showed that the Hg methylation in the water-soil
interface was higher than in the rhizosphere soil in all the three
sites. Hg methylation rate in the background rice paddy was much higher
than in the other two Hg polluted sites. Sulfate-reducing bacteria and
methanogens were indicated to be the main methylators in rice paddy, and
methanogens were likely compete, i.e. for some important nutrient, with
other methylators. This study will provide an in depth understanding of
the diversity and distribution of microorganisms responsible for mercury
methylation in natural environments, which in turn can be used for
specific strategies for restoration and management of landscapes to
limit mercury methylation

<p style="text-align:justify">Key words: rice paddy, microorganism, mercury, methylmercury, mercury
methylation
