<center><strong>Comparison of four soil remediation techniques applied to trace
elements contaminated soil: a three-year field experiment</strong>

<center><strong>Xiaoming Wan</strong>, M. Lei, X.Y. Zhou and Y. Zhang

<center><i>Institute of Geographic Sciences and Natural Resources Research,
Chinese Academy of Sciences, China </i>

<center><i>wanxm.06s@igsnrr.ac.cn</i>

<p style=text-align:justify>Due to high risks of metal(loid)s contaminated soil to human health, the
remediation or management of contaminated farm land receives increasing
attention from all over the world. The current study compared the
remediation efficiency of several remediation techniques on the same
piece of land. The farmland is contaminated by earlier application of
sewage irrigation, containing excess amount of arsenic (As), cadmium
(Cd) and lead (Pb). Phytoextraction, intercropping of hyperaccumulators
and cash crops, chemical immobilization, plow and mix were selected as
the four remediation techniques. The total concentrations of
metal(loid)s concentrations in soil and crops, and the concentrations of
extractable metal(loid)s in soil were monitored during the three-year
field experiment. The remediation efficiency was mainly evaluated from
the aspects of crops yield and metal(loid)s concentrations of crops. The
costs of these techniques were also compared. Plow and mix emerges as
the most efficient in situ method to deal with slightly contaminated
soil in this piece of land. The results can, on the one hand, provide
information for the land owners or utilizers to select appropriate
techniques, and on the other hand, give a clue on how to improve the
efficiency of current soil remediation techniques.
