<center><strong>Ectomycorrhizal fungi may not act as a barrier inhibiting host plant
absorption of heavy metals while enhancing successful vegetation
restoration on heavy-metal tailings</strong>

<center><strong>Yahua Chen<sup>a,b,c</sup></strong>, L. Shi<sup>a</sup>, Y.Z. Tang<sup>a</sup>, B.H.Liu<sup>a</sup> and Z.G. Shen<sup>a,b,c</sup>

<center><i><sup>a</sup>College of Life Sciences, Nanjing Agricultural University, China</i>

<center><i><sup>b</sup>Jiangsu Collaborative Innovation Center for Solid Organic Waste
Resource, Nanjing Agricultural University, China</i>

<center><i><sup>c</sup>National Joint Local Engineering Research Center for Rural Land
Resources Use and Consolidation, Nanjing Agricultural University,
Nanjing 210095, China</i>

<center><i>yahuachen@njau.edu.cn</i>

<p style=text-align:justify>Whether the huge external hyphal system of ectomycorrhizae that promotes
host plants' acquisition ofwater and nutrients can selectively inhibit
their transport of heavy metals at the same time remainsunclear.In the
root-bag test, external hyphae took the initiative into the
Cu/Cd-contaminated bulk soil, absorband transport Cu and Cd to the
rhizosphere soils and further transport it to the shoots of the host
plants.Inoculation with ectomycorrhizal fungi (EMF) also promoted the
uptake of nutrients by host plants, thereby increasing theirbiomass and
improving Cu/Cd tolerance compared with non-inoculated plants.
Inoculation with EMFspecies with higher Cu or Cd tolerance generated
more phytostabilization and phytoextraction of Cu orCd by host plants.
Therefore, we concluded that EMF do not act asa barrier inhibiting the
absorption of heavy metals by host plants, but rather promote this
absorption. On the other hand, vegetation reconstruction on heavy-metal
tailings dumps is a very difficult process. The survivorship of
non-mycorrhizal (NM) seedlings after 6 months was only 56%. The
survivorships of <i>Laccarialaccata</i> and <i>Hebeloma vinosophyllum</i>
seedlings were 89% and 100%, respectively. Inoculation with EMF
significantly promoted the absorption of nutrients, such as Pi, by host
pine seedlings. Pine seedlings increased the numbers of soil bacterial
communities and the activities of soil urease and acid phosphatase. <i>H.
vinosophyllum</i> seedlings had the greatest effect among all of these soil
indicator parameters. Mycorrhizal pine seedlings significantly reduced
the availability of heavy metals in the soil and increased the amount of
heavy metals transferred to host plant tissues. Cd-tolerant EMF were
especially efficient promoters of these activities. Thus, the
cultivation of ectomycorrhizal pine trees can improve soil quality in
mining wastelands and increase the chances of successful vegetation
restoration.
