<center><strong>Phytomanagement of heavy metals polluted soils by willows and
phytoremediation efficiency of different genotypes associated with
microbiome</strong>

<center><strong>Hongyan Guo</strong>, G.B. Wang, F.X. Ai, Y. Yin and W.C Du

<center><i>State Key Laboratory of Pollution Control and Resource Reuse, School of Environment, </i>

<center><i>Nanjing University, China </i>

<center><i>hyguo@nju.edu.cn</i>

<p style=text-align:justify>According to the Ministry of Land and Resources Report on the national
soil contamination survey, 16.1% of the soil surveyed was classified as
polluted, the main pollutants were heavy metals and metalloids,
particular cadmium (Cd). Therefore, it is exigent for remediation Cd
contaminated soil in China. As a landscape, energy plant, and the
characteristics of fast growing, productive, easy to manage, as well
tolerace to stresses and heavy metals accumulated, willow is a
alternative species for[]{#_Hlk535935356 .anchor} phytomanagement.

<p style=text-align:justify>The pollutants tolerace and phytoremediation efficiency of willows
varies with genotypes. Thus, three willow genotyes (1011, 172, 2345)
were seleceted based on the capacity of Cd accumulation from 160
cultivars to optimize phytoremediation. The three willows genotypes
showed considerable Cd tolerance and bioaccumulation in both slight and
serious polluted soils. The bioconcentration factors (BCFs) of aerial
parts were 6.73, 6.43, 8.81 at slight polluted site and 4.30, 4.48, 7.44
at serious polluted site for 1011, 172, 2345, respectively. However, the
biomass of 1011 were about 10.8 t/ha (DW) in the first growing season,
significantly higer than 172, 2345. The overall results showed that the
phytoremediation efficiency of 1011 was higher than other two genotypes
because of the larger biomass. Furthermore, the risk of brownfield sites
can be reduced by willows planting as vegetation buffers. The heavy
metals (Cd, Pb, Cu, et al) in runoff from polluted site were decreased
by more than 80% by willows buffers.

<p style=text-align:justify>Besides the own traits of willows, rhizosphere microbiome and their
interactions also determined the efficiency of phytoremediation.
Rhizosphere microbiomes composition and interactions were assessed to
explore the mechanism of phytoremediation efficiency variation with
willow genotypes. The results showed that microbial communities in
rhizosphere were highly influenced by willow genotypes. Different taxa
of plant growth promoting bacteria were accumulated in willows
rhizosphere, and the relative abundance of AMF in rhizosphere of 1011
was richer than other two genotypes at serious polluted sites. Molecular
ecological networks analyses indicated more symbiotic relationships
among microbes in the rhizosphere of 1011, as evidenced by higher ratio
of positive links and negative links between microbes than other two
genotypes. Furthermore, two keystone taxa were identified in the
rhizosphere of 1011 which involved to nitrogen cycling and nitrogen
absorption. This results well supported that microbial community and
interactions in rhizosphere associated with larger biomass of 1011 at Cd
contaminated soil, which contributed to higher phytoremediation
efficiency.

<p style=text-align:justify>The current study provide a cost-effective technology for
phytomanagement of heavy metals polluted soils, and enhanced the
understanding of influence of microbial communities and interactions on
phytoremediation efficiency among willow genotypes.
