<center><strong>Molecular mechanism of cadmium hypertolerance on the cadmium/zinc
hyperaccumulator <i>Sedum plumbizincicola<strong></i>

<center>H. Zhao<sup>a</sup>, H. Liu<sup>a,b</sup>, L. Wu<sup>c</sup>, F-J. Zhao<sup>b</sup> and <strong>Wenzhong Xu<sup>a</sup></strong>

<center><i><sup>a</sup>Key Laboratory of Plant Resources, Institute of Botany, Chinese
Academy of Sciences, China</i>

<center><i><sup>b</sup>State Key Laboratory of Crop Genetics and Germplasm Enhancement,
Nanjing Agricultural University, China</i>

<center><i><sup>c</sup> Key Laboratory of Soil Environment and Pollution Remediation,
Institute of Soil Science, Chinese Academy of Sciences, China</i>

<center><i>xuwzh@ibcas.ac.cn</i>

<p style=text-align:justify>Cadmium (Cd) is a non-essential heavy metal element that is highly toxic
to almost all organisms, including plants and humans. But some rare
plant species can hyperaccumulate Cd in aboveground tissues to 100-fold
higher than normal plant species without suffering from toxicity, which
are called Cd hyperaccumulators. <i>Sedum plumbizincicola</i> is a
Crassulaceae species native to the Cd/Zn mining areas in southeast
China. Because of its strong resistance and hyperaccumulation to Cd/Zn,
it is a main phytoremediation species of Cd pollution soil restoration
test. However, as a consequence of the lack of transgenic methods for
this species, the mechanism underlying high resistance to Cd remains
unclear. We isolated <i>SpHMA3</i> (<i>Heavy Metal ATPase 3</i>) from <i>S.
plumbizincicola</i>, and first developed a genetic transformation system
for <i>S. plumbizincicola</i> and the nonhyperaccumulating ecotype of <i>S.
alfredii</i>, so RNA interference (RNAi)-mediated silencing and
overexpression of <i>SpHMA3</i> were performed in the <i>Sedum</i> species. We
found that SpHMA3 protein was tonoplast-localized and showed Cd-specific
transport activity, and <i>SpHMA3</i> was highly expressed in the shoots of
<i>S. plumbizincicola</i>. The <i>SpHMA3-RNAi</i> lines were hypersensitive to Cd,
and the growth of shoots and young leaves was severely inhibited by Cd,
but did not affect the accumulation of Cd in the aboveground.
Furthermore, a homolog gene of <i>HMA1</i> (<i>Heavy Metal ATPase 1</i>),
<i>SpHMA1</i>, was also isolated and functionally identified from the <i>S.
plumbizincicola</i>. The SpHMA1 protein was localized to the chloroplast
envelope. <i>SpHMA1</i> RNA interference (RNAi) transgenic plants and
CRISPR/Cas9-induced mutant lines showed significantly increased Cd
accumulation in the chloroplasts compared with wild-type plants.
Chlorophyll fluorescence imaging analysis revealed that the photosystem
II of <i>SpHMA1</i> knockdown and knockout lines suffered from a much higher
degree of Cd toxicity than wild type. These results suggest that SpHMA1
functions as a chloroplast Cd exporter and protects photosynthesis by
preventing Cd accumulation in the chloroplast in <i>S</i>. <i>plumbizincicola</i>.
Taken together, our study showed that SpHMA3 and SpHMA1 are highly
expressed in shoots to enable an efficient detoxification of Cd in the
leaves. SpHMA1, as a Cd transporter localized at the chloroplast
envelope, functions to export Cd from the chloroplasts to the cytoplasm
and protect the photochemical reactions in leaf cells of the Cd
hyperaccumulator <i>S. plumbizincicola</i>. To keep the cytosolic Cd at low
levels, another heavy metal ATPase, SpHMA3, functions to transport Cd
from the cytoplasm into the vacuoles. Thus, both SpHMA1 and SpHMA3 are
important for Cd hypertolerance in <i>S. plumbizincicola</i>.
