<center><strong>Influence of metal-immobilization potentials of metal-resistant
bacteria Enterobacter sp.EG16 and Bacillus subtilis DBM by goethite,
kaolinite and gibbsite</strong>

<center><strong>Yaying Li<sup>a</sup></strong>, W. L. Feng<sup>a</sup>, Z. Y. Lin<sup>a</sup>, S.Z. Wang<sup>abc</sup> and R. L.
Qiu<sup>abc</sup>

<center><i><sup>a</sup> School of Environmental Science and engineering, Sun Yat-sen
University, China</i>

<center><i><sup>b</sup> Guangdong Provincial Key Laboratory of Environmental Pollution
Control and Remediation Technology, Sun Yat-sen University, China</i>

<center><i><sup>c</sup> Guangdong Provincial Engineering Research Center for Heavy Metal
Contaminated Soil Remediation,Sun Yat-sen University, China</i>

<center><i>liyaying3@mail.sysu.edu.cn</i>

<p style=text-align:justify>Phytoremediation has become the most eco-friendly and commonly used way
to handle heavy metal contaminated soil. Metal-resistant bacteria were
widely used to assist this process by secreting beneficial phytotrophin
and immobilizing heavy metal ions. However, while assisting, soil
minerals might be able to adsorb metal-resistant bacteria so that induce
changes in surface properties of bacteria and influence its
metal-immobilization potentials. Furthermore, surface properties of
Gram-negative bacteria and Gram-positive bacteria might change
differently by the present of various soil minarals, and finally show
different metal immobilization preference. In this study, two
metal-resistant bacteria (Gram-negative bacteria <i>Enterobacter</i> sp.EG16
and Gram-positive bacteria <i>Bacillus subtilis</i> DBM) were screened from
the rhisosphere of <i>Hibiscus cannabinus</i>, and three typical soil
minerals (goethite, kaolinite and gibbsite) were chosen. The result
showed that the maximum adhesion capacities of goethite, kaolinite, and
gibbsite for Gram-negative bacteria EG16 were 534.54, 255.03, and 160.95
mg g<sup>−1</sup> and for Gram-positive bacteria DBM were 417.12, 217.58, and
160.27 mg g<sup>−1</sup> respectively. The effect of pH on the adsorption of
Gram-positive bacteria DBM and Gram-negative bacteria EG16 was similar.
The maximum amount of bacteria adsorption occurred at pH 4.0 and
decreased with increasing pH from 4.0 to 7.0. The adsorption capacity of
goethite was greater than that of kaolinite and gibbsite within the pH
range of 4 to 7. The adsorption of EG16 and DBM onto goethite decreases
significantly with increasing ionic strength from 1 to 100 mM K<sup>+</sup>.
while ionic strength has little effect on the adsorption capacity of
kaolinite and gibbsite. The trend of adsorption capacity of the two
bacteria is basically the same with time. Within the first 15 minutes,
two bacteria rapidly adsorbed onto the surface of three minerals. Then
the adsorption is relatively slow Adsorption saturation between two
bacteria and goethite is about 30 min and no significant changes were
observed after 30 min. The adsorption of bacteria onto minerals can be
characterized by Pseudo-second-order kinetic model. This indicates that
the adsorption process of two bacteria on minerals is mainly controlled
by chemical adsorption. The image of TEM and FTIR showed the same
result. This study help to understand surface changes of bacteria while
microbes assisting phytoremediation and give evidence to predict
metal-immobilization potentials of metal-resistant bacteria.

<p style=text-align:justify>This work was supported by the National Key R&D Program of China
(2018YFD0800700); Natural Science Foundation of Guangdong Province
(2018A030310127); NSFC (41807031) and the 111 Project(B18060).
