<center><strong>The interaction between particulate organic matter and heavy metals in
zinc smelting waste slag under <i>in situ</i> aided phytostabilization</strong>

<center><strong>Youfa Luo<sup>a, b</sup></strong>, Y. G. Wu<sup>b</sup>, T. L. Fu<sup>c</sup> and H. Wang<sup>b</sup>

<center><i><sup>a</sup> The Key Laboratory of Karst Environment and Geohazard Prevention,
Guizhou University, China</i>

<center><i><sup>b</sup> College of Resource and Environmental Engineering, Guizhou
University, China</i>

<center><i><sup>c</sup> Institute of New Rural Development, Guizhou University, China</i>

<center><i>youfaluo@163.com</i>

<p style=text-align:justify>Since the 17th century, large-scale indigenous zinc smelting activities
have been carried out in northwestern Guizhou, China. Until the smelting
activities were ceased in 2004, large amounts of zinc smelting waste
slag were randomly stacked along the river and in the surrounding soil
without taking any safe disposal measures have caused serious water,
air, and soil contamination. Extremely harsh habitat conditions in waste
slag such as poor physical structure, nutrient deficiency, and high
toxic metals content, resulting devoid of plants in the waste slag site.
Severe wind and water erosion in this area are the main ways for the
diffusion of heavy metal in bare waste slag sites without vegetation.
Phytostabilization, the most promising option for waste slag ponds
reclamation, reduces heavy metal bioavailability, improves waste slag
fertility, reduces wind and water erosion, and increase the diversity of
vegetation and microbial community in waste slag. Particulate organic
matter (POM, &gt;53 μm) has attracted widely attention because it is a
special type of organic matter that has a fast decomposition rate and is
easy to enrich heavy metals. A field investigation showed that
considerable organic matter (the thickness of the plant litter reached 3
cm) accumulated on the surface of the Zn smelting waste slag after 5
years of <i>in situ</i> aided phytostabilization. It is hypothesized that the
POM formation after the litter decomposition could significantly impact
the distribution of heavy metals in waste slag. Therefore, the objective
of the present study was to investigate the interaction between POM and
heavy metals in waste slag under <i>in situ</i> aided phytostabilization. The
results showed that the input of litter has decomposed to different
particle size fractions of POM, and the percentage of POM with a
particle size of 0.05-0.25 mm was highest, followed by &gt;1 mm and
0.5-1 mm, and the 0.25-0.5 mm was lowest. The mass of POM derived from
four plants in the following order: <i>Cryptomeria fortunei</i> &gt;
<i>Broussonetia papyrifera</i> &gt; <i>Arundo donax</i> &gt; <i>Robinia
pseudoacacia</i>. The content, enrichment coefficient, and mass load of
heavy metals in the POM increase with the decrease of POM particle size,
and the fine particle size fractions of POM with a particle size of
0.05-0.25 mm was the highest. The mass load of Cu, Pb, Zn, and Cd in POM
in the following order: Cu&gt;Cd&gt;Zn&gt;Pb. The surface of the coarse
particle size POM is smoother, and the fine particle size POM is rougher
and has a larger specific surface area. The main functional groups in
different particle size fractions of POM were -COOH, -OH, C=O, C=C, and
C-OH. The size and composition of POM fractions play a key role in
determining the distribution of heavy metals in the waste slag. The
finding in this study that the role of POM in heavy metal biogeochemical
processes which have important implications for phytostabilization of
waste slag.
