<center><strong>Potential of <i>Boehmeria nivea</i> for phytostabilization of REEs mine
tailings</strong>

<center><strong>Chang Liu<sup>a,d</sup></strong>, Y.M. Yang<sup>a</sup>, H. Huot<sup>a</sup>, W.S. Liu<sup>a</sup>, M.N. Guo<sup>a,d</sup>, M. Yuan<sup>a</sup>, Y.T. Tang<sup>a,b,c</sup>, R.L. Qiu<sup>a,b,c</sup> and J.L. Morel<sup>d</sup>

<center><i><sup>a</sup> School of Environmental Science and Engineering, Sun Yat-sen
University, China</i>

<center><i><sup>b</sup> Guangdong Provincial Key Laboratory of Environmental Pollution
Control and Remediation Technology, Sun Yat-sen University, China</i>

<center><i><sup>c</sup> Guangdong Provincial Engineering Research Center for Heavy Metal
Contaminated Soil Remediation, Sun Yat-sen University, China</i>

<center><i><sup>d</sup> Laboratoire Sols et Environnement, Université de Lorraine, INRA,
France</i>

<center><i>liuch79@mail2.sysu.edu.cn</i>

<p style=text-align:justify>Abandoned ionic REE mines, widely distributed in South China, are
subjected to serious erosion due to a low vegetation coverage and steep
slopes. The spreading and accumulation of REEs in environmental bodies
(e.g. water, farmland) is a potential risk for the populations in a long
run. The phytostabilization of REE mine tailings could be a way to limit
soil erosion and reduce REEs leaching from mine tailings. Ramie
(<i>Boehmeria nivea</i> L.), which produces high above-ground and root
biomass, and exhibits a strong adaptability to harsh environments, could
be considered a good candidate for phytostabilization of mine tailings.
The objectives of this work were 1) to investigate the REEs tolerance
capacity of ramie through a hydroponic experiment; 2) to investigate the
potential of ramie for phytostabilization through a field trial on an
abandoned mine site. In hydropony, ramie was exposed to various REEs
concentrations (0, 0.1, 0.5, 1, 5 10, 25, 50 μM). An enhancement of the
growth of ramie was observed at low concentration (0.1-5 μM) with an
optimum for ramie roots at 0.1 μM and ramie aboveground parts at 1 μM.
The plant tolerance index was higher than 1 at low concentration, then
significantly lower at higher REEs concentrations (10, 25 and 50 μM). In
the field experiment, ramie plants were planted in amended tailings,
which modified in the first 10 centimeters with the organic amendments
3.5-4t/667m². After 2 years, plant samples with bulk soils and
rhizosphere soils were collected. Compared to bulk soil, the content of
nutrients (K, Ca, Na, Mg) and EC, TC, TN increased in the rhizosphere
soils, and the soil physicochemical properties were significantly
improved. The dry biomass of radish roots accounted for 85-89% of the
total dry biomass of ramie. Radish root, which is the main storage organ
for ramie, accumulated 13 to 21 mg REEs (i.e. 80% of the total REEs in
the plant). In conclusion, ramie can install and grow on REEs mine
tailings, and can be used for phytostabilization. In addition, it
provides other services such as fiber production for industrial use.
Long term effects of ramie on other ecosystem services are under
investigation (e.g. biodiversity).

<p style=text-align:justify>Acknowledgement: This work is supported by the National Natural Science
Foundation of China (NSFC) [Grant No. 21850410450]; Science and
Technology Planning Project of Guangdong Province [Grant No.
2016A020221013], and the 111 project [Grant No. B18060]. The
“International Joint Lab - ECOLAND” is acknowledged for supporting this
work. We also acknowledge the “2017-2019 Sino-French Cai Yuanpei
Programme” and the PhD scholarship awarded to Liu Chang (No.
201700260091) by the China Scholarship Council. The authors are also
indebted to the LabEx Ressources21 for its financial support.
