<center><strong>Dissolved organic matter differentially accelerates arsenic
methylation and volatilization by modifying substrate and <i>arsM</i>
bacteria composition in paddy soils</strong>

<center><strong>Shiming Su<sup>a</sup></strong>, M.M. Yan<sup>a,b</sup>, X.B. Zeng<sup>a</sup>, L.Y. Bai<sup>a</sup> and J.
Wang<sup>b</sup>

<center><i><sup>a</sup> Institute of Environment and Sustainable Development in
Agriculture, Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences, Ministry of
Agriculture Key Laboratory of Agro-Environment, China<i>

<center><i><sup>b</sup> School of Geographic and Environmental Sciences, Guizhou Normal
University, China<i>

<center><i>sushiming@caas.cn<i>

<p style="text-align:justify">Flooded rice cultivation significantly promotes arsenic (As) methylation
and volatilization in soils. Dimethylarsenate (DMAs) as the main product
of As methylation can cause straighthead disease symptoms in rice
plants. Notably, DMAs in rice is formed by microbes present in the soil
as rice plants themselves cannot methylate arsenite (As(III)). Moreover,
although dissolved organic matter (DOM) can change As activity and
speciation in soils, whether DOM can affect As methylation and
volatilization in paddy soils, and the performance of DOM with different
origins remains unclear. In this study, we prepared DOM from different
sources such as pig manure, cow dung, chicken manure, and rice straw and
characterized their elemental composition and functional groups. The
methyl As content in soil solution and the trapped volatile As from
paddy soils following DOM application were analyzed. The abundance and
community structure of the total bacteria and functional bacteria
encoding arsenite S-adenosylmethionine methyltransferase (<i>arsM</i>) were
observed using Illumina high-throughput sequencing. The results showed
that pig manure and rice straw DOM exhibited the highest and lowest
ability to methylate As with an efficiency of 18.6 and 10.0 µg methyl As
g<sup>−1</sup> total organic content in paddy soil, respectively. Based on the
volatile As trapping device, the trapped As in paddy soils following pig
manure DOM application was approximately 2.7- and 9.6-fold higher than
that of soils treated with rice straw DOM and the control after 13 weeks
of incubation, respectively. Specifically, trimethylarsenate, accounting
for 54%, represented the highest trapped As species in silica beads. The
copy number of the total and <i>arsM</i> bacteria was significantly enhanced
in paddy soils treated with DOM. <i>arsM</i> copy number and methyl As
content in paddy soils were significantly positively correlated (<i>P</i>
&lt; 0.01). Bacterial strains such as <i>Proteobacteria, Bacteroidetes,
Geobacter</i>, <i>Sphingomonas</i>, <i>Streptomyces</i>, and <i>Rhodopseudomonas</i>
capable of As reduction, methylation, or volatilization emerged largely
in paddy soils following pig manure DOM addition. Additionally, numerous
carboxyl (-COOH) groups were observed in the pig manure DOM, which
facilitate the desorption of inorganic As from the soil colloid and
increase of As methylation substrate. The relative abundance of
aliphatic compounds with non-polar alkyl C and N-alkyl C functional
groups in pig manure DOM supports the bacterial growth in paddy soils,
as opposed to rice straw DOM that contains more aromatic compounds with
aromatic C-O. In conclusion, DOM presenting different physicochemical
characteristics can differentially promote As methylation and
volatilization in paddy soils by changing the As methylation substrate
and the abundance and community structure of <i>arsM</i> bacteria. These
observations will provide a better understanding of DOM-mediated
promotion of As methylation and volatilization in paddy soils.
