<center><strong>Methylation and demethylation of mercury by marine microalgae </strong>

<center><strong>Li Yanbin<sup>a</sup></strong>, Li Y.<sup>a</sup> and Song B.B.<sup>a</sup>

<center><i><sup>a</sup> Key Laboratory of Marine Chemistry Theory and Technology, Ministry
of Education, Ocean University of China, China<i>

<center><i>liyanbin@ouc.edu.cn<i>

<p style="text-align:justify">Mercury and its compounds are a kind of persistent toxic pollutants.
Methylmercury (MeHg) is the most concerned specie of mercury in the
environment due to its high toxicity and quick accumulation along the
food chain. Methylation and demethylation are the two key processes
controlling the level of MeHg in aquatic environments. As the major
primary producer in the ocean, microalgae are expected to play an
important role in the cycling and accumulation of Hg in marine
ecosystems by either absorbing Hg species from seawater or involving in
the transformations of Hg species. Despite the large quantities of
studies on the uptake of Hg by microalgae, there is still lack of clear
knowledge on whether marine microalgae can induce the methylation and
demethylation of mercury in aquatic environments. In this study, mercury
isotope dilution and isotope tracer techniques were adopted to determine
the methylation and demethylation of Hg at concentrations comparable to
that in natural environments by 16 common marine microalgae. The tested
microalgae include 8 species of diatoms, 5 species of dinoflagellates, 2
species of green algae and 1 species of golden algae. Methylation of
inorganic Hg was found to be negligible in the culture of all 16 tested
marine microalgae, while 7 microalgae could significantly induce the
demethylation of MeHg. The rates of microalgae mediated MeHg
demethylation are at the same order of magnitude as that of
photodemethylation, indicating that marine microalgae may play an
important role in the degradation of MeHg in the ocean. Further studies
suggest that the demethylation of MeHg by the microalgae may be mainly
caused by their extracellular secretions and associated bacteria, rather
than the direct demethylation of MeHg by microalgal cells.
