<center><strong>Shifts in mercury methylation processes across the succession of
peatlands</strong>

<center><strong>Haiyan Hu<sup>a, b</sup></strong>, B. L. Wang<sup>c</sup>, A. G. Bravo<sup>b,d</sup>, E. Björn<sup>e</sup>, U.
Skyllberg<sup>f</sup>, D. Amouroux<sup>g</sup>, J. Zopfi<sup>h</sup>, K. Bishop<sup>c</sup>, X. B. Feng<sup>a</sup>,
M. B. Nilsson<sup>e</sup> and S. Bertilsson<sup>b</sup>

<center><i><sup>a</sup>State Key Laboratory of Environmental Geochemistry, Institute of
Geochemistry, Chinese Academy of Sciences, China<i>

<center><i><sup>b</sup>Department of Ecology and Genetics, Limnology and Science for Life
Laboratory, Uppsala University, Sweden<i>

<center><i><sup>c</sup>Department of Aquatic Sciences and Assessment, Swedish University of
Agricultural Sciences, Sweden.<i>

<center><i><sup>d</sup>Institute of Marine Sciences, Spanish National Research Council
CSIC, Spain.<i>

<center><i><sup>e</sup>Department of Chemistry, Umeå University, Sweden.<i>

<center><i><sup>f</sup>Department of Forest Ecology and Management, Swedish University of
Agricultural Sciences, Sweden.<i>

<center><i><sup>g</sup>CNRS/Univ Pau & Pays Adour, Institut des Sciences Analytiques et de
Physico-Chimie pour l'Environnement et les Materiaux, France.<i>

<center><i><sup>h</sup>Department of Environmental Sciences, Biogeochemistry, University of
Basel, Switzerland.<i>

<center><i>huhaiyan@mail.gyig.ac.cn

<p style="text-align:justify">Peatlands are globally important ecosystems where inorganic mercury is
converted to bioaccumulating and highly toxic methylmercury. Although
biological mercury methylation has been known for decades, we still have
an incomplete understanding of organisms and processes driving
methylation in different environments. Numerous studies have
demonstrated that wetlands are “hotspot” of Hg methyltion. However,
wetlands are diverse with respect to hydrology and biogeochemistry and
thus the prevailing environmental conditions that control methylation
and demethylation processes are highly variable. We hypothesize that the
changes in the trophic status of peatlands across the succession will
also be expressed in the composition of their microbial communities and
thus in their potential to form MeHg. Here we used experimental
laboratory incubations of peat samples from a mire chronosequence with
fundamentally different ecohydrological conditions to identify master
controls of mercury methylation and demethylation. The results showed
that the potential mercury methylation rates decreased with the age of
the peatlands, being up to 53 times higher in the youngest peatland
compared to the oldest. Methylation in young mires was driven by sulfate
reduction, while methanogenic and syntrophic metabolism became more
important in older systems. We also show that while biotic methylmercury
degradation was important in young mires, abiotic degradation was
prominent in older systems. Our work demonstrates a new perspective on
Hg(II) methylation across the succession of boreal peatlands which can
be used to conceptualize our understanding of the dominating
ecohydrological and biogeochemical controls on mercury methylation and
the MeHg supply to downstream surface waters.
