<center><strong>Cadmium isotope fractionation in plant−soil systems after repeated phytoextraction by <i>Sedum plumbizincicola</i></strong> 

<center><strong>Longhua Wu</strong>, J.W. Zhou, Z. Li and P Christie

<center><i>Institute of Soil Science, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Nanjing 210008, China</i> 

<center><i>lhwu@issas.ac.cn</i> 

<p style="text-align:justify">Analysis of stable metal isotopic ratios provides a novel tool to
explore metal uptake and transfer mechanisms in soil-plant systems. In
this study a pot experiment was conducted to investigate cadmium (Cd)
isotope fractionation after repeated phytoextraction by the Cd and zinc
(Zn) hyperaccumulator <i>Sedum plumbizincicola</i> with five successive crops
in four highly Cd-contaminated agricultural soils. Two of the soils were
paddy soils (S1 and S4) and the other two were upland soils (S2 and S3)
collected from lead-zinc mining areas in Hunan province, central China.
The Cd isotopic composition of all four soils was determined before and
after five crops of phytoextraction, in the shoots of the first crop of
<i>S. plumbizincicola</i> , and in the NH<sub>4</sub>Ac-extractable Cd pool of soils S1
(pH 5.73) and S3 (pH 7.23) before and after repeated phytoextraction. In
the initial soils before phytoextraction the Cd extracted by NH<sub>4</sub>Ac was
isotopically lighter than or showed no significant difference from soil
total Cd (Δ<sup>114/110</sup>Cd<sub>extract−soil</sub> = -0.152 to 0.007 ‰). In addition,
larger fractionation of light isotopes between the NH<sub>4</sub>Ac-extractable
Cd and total Cd in the paddy soil S1 (Δ<sup>114/110</sup>Cd<sub>extract−soil</sub> =
-0.152‰) than the upland soil S3 (Δ<sup>114/110</sup>Cd<sub>extract−soil</sub> = 0.007‰)
indicates that more Cd leaching from paddy soil than from upland soil
preferentially removes heavy Cd isotopes. Cadmium in the shoots of <i>S.
plumbizincicola</i> was significantly isotopically heavier than Cd in soils
(Δ<sup>114/110</sup>Cd<sub>shoot−soil</sub> = 0.022 to 0.132‰) and Cd in the soils after
phytoextraction was significantly isotopically lighter than Cd in soils
before phytoextraction (Δ<sup>114/110</sup>Cd<sub>soil: P5−soil: P0</sub> = -0.146 to
-0.032‰). This demonstrates that <i>S. plumbizincicola</i> favours heavy Cd
isotopes. However, there was no significant isotope fractionation
between Cd extracted by NH<sub>4</sub>Ac and Cd in shoots, implying that
NH<sub>4</sub>Ac-extractable Cd constitutes the plant-available Cd pool to <i>S.
plumbizincicola</i>. After phytoextraction, NH<sub>4</sub>Ac-extractable Cd isotopes
significantly fractionated with Δ<sup>114/110</sup>Cd<sub>extract: P5−extract: P0</sub>
values of 0.074 to 0.180 ‰. This may result from the replenishment of
heavier isotopes from other soil Cd pools. Based on a previous
observation that <i>S. plumbizincicola</i> was enriched in light Zn isotopes,
this suggests that <i>S. plumbizincicola</i> may have a Cd uptake and
transfer mechanism different from Zn. <i>Sedum plumbizincicola</i> may have a
special channel for Cd transportation which leads to an enrichment of
heavy Cd isotopes in the aboveground parts. This is inconsistent with
the supposition that plants take up Cd via their Zn transport systems.
