<center><strong>Zinc transporters for uptake, translocation and distribution in rice</strong> 

<center><strong>Jian Feng Ma<sup>a</sup>,</strong> N. Yamaji<sup>a</sup> and A. Sasaki<sup>a</sup>

<center><i><sup>a</sup> Institute of Plant Science and Resources, Okayama University, Japan</i> 

<center><i>maj@okayama-u.ac.jp</i> 

<p style="text-align:justify">Zinc (Zn) is an essential micronutrient for plant growth and
development. Especially, developing tissues such as meristem require
high Zn for their active growth. In my talk, I will introduce
transporters involved in uptake, root-to-shoot translocation and
distribution of Zn in rice. OsZIP9, a member of ZIP family is mainly
expressed at the exodermis of the roots. Its expression was up-regulated
by Zn-deficiency. Knockdown of this gene resulted in decreased Zn uptake
and growth. Therefore, OsZIP9 is a transporter for Zn uptake under
Zn-deficient condition. After uptake, part of Zn will be sequestered to
the vacuoles by OsHMA3, a member of HMA family. Our recent work showed
that OsHMA3 plays an important role in both Zn detoxification and
storage in rice roots. The root-to-shoot translocation of Zn is mediated
by OsHMA2, a homolog of OsHMA3. OsHMA2 is localized to the plasma
membrane of root pericyclic cells. Knockout of this gene resulted in
decreased translocation of Zn to the shoots. Distribution of Zn to
different organs of above-ground part is mediated by at least two
transporters, OsZIP3 and OsHMA2. Both OsZIP3 and OsHMA2 are highly
expressed in the nodes, a hub for mineral element distribution in rice.
OsZIP3 is localized in the xylem intervening parenchyma cells and xylem
transfer cells of enlarged vascular bundles (EVBs), while OsHMA2 is
localized at phloem region of both EVBs and diffuse vascular bundles
(DVBs). Therefore, OsZIP3 is responsible for unloading Zn from the xylem
of EVB, while OsHMA2 is responsible for loading Zn to the phloem of DVBs
and EVBs. Knockout of either OsHMA2 or OsZIP3 resulted in decreased
distribution of Zn to the developing tissues.
