<center><strong>Screening of rice varieties for cadmium tolerance</strong> 

<center><strong>Adeosun Ayotunde Abiodun</strong>, G J. Norton and A. H. Price

<center><i>University of Aberdeen, School of Biological and Environmental Sciences, Scotland, United Kingdom</i> 

<center><i>r03aaa17@abdn.ac.uk</i> 

<p style="text-align:justify">Cadmium is a well-known environmental pollutant. Rice is an important
staple food for approximately half of the world’s populations and for
people who depend on rice as a dietary staple, it has been shown to be
potentially a major source of cadmium intake. In polished rice grains, a
safe level threshold of 0.4 mg kg<sup>-1</sup> cadmium has been set by the Codex
Alimentarius Commission of the FAO/WHO. Large genotypic variation in
cadmium accumulation in the shoot and grain of rice cultivars have been
reported. An understanding of the molecular and physiological mechanisms
responsible for cultivar variations in cadmium tolerance and
accumulation can help with the breeding of rice cultivars with high
cadmium tolerance and low levels of cadmium accumulation in the grains.
The aim of this study was to determine the relationship between cadmium
tolerance and cadmium accumulation in rice and identify genetic loci for
cadmium tolerance from a novel population. Initially a rapid screening
system for cadmium tolerance was developed to determine the lowest
concentration of cadmium which produce easily measurable differences in
cadmium stress on the plants in a hydroponic system. Cadmium tolerance
index for plant traits (root length, shoot length, root dry weight and
shoot dry weight) were determined across the cadmium concentration used
in a first experiment (0, 1, 5, 10, 20, 40, 70, 100 µM). The highest
significant cultivar difference for the two rice varieties tested (cv.
Italica Carolina and cv. Rata Boro) was obtained at 10 µM for root dry
weight (P &lt;0.001) and shoot height (P= 0.010). There were significant
differences in total shoot cadmium and shoot cadmium concentrations
between the two rice cultivars used in the first experiment. A
significant cultivar by environment interaction for shoot cadmium
concentration was also observed (p&lt;0.05). There was a general trend
of decreasing level of nutrient element content (manganese, copper and
zinc) in the shoot with increasing levels of cadmium concentration. A
second experiment was conducted using cadmium concentrations of 0, 10,
and 40 µM with increased number of rice cultivars (four low and four
high grain cadmium accumulating cultivar). Cadmium tolerance index was
calculated and significant cultivar differences were observed at 10 uM
for shoot height (&lt;0.001) and root dry weight (P=0.005) only. In a
third experiment a 10 µM cadmium concentration hydroponic solution was
used to screen the Bengal and Assam Aus Panel
population (203 rice cultivars) for the purpose of conducting genome
wide association (GWA) mapping for cadmium tolerance. The most useful
trait for tolerance to cadmium stress was found to be shoot length with
significant cultivar by treatment interaction (p &lt;0.001). Eighteen
cultivars were found to be very tolerant to cadmium stress, one hundred
and seventeen cultivars were moderately tolerant, while seventy
cultivars were found to be sensitive. Using the GWAS, a number of
potential genes directly related to cadmium tolerance were identified.

