<center><strong>A conserved mechanism for plant tolerance to iron-dependent redox toxicity</strong> 

<center><strong>Baohai Li<sup>a,b</sup></strong>, L. Sun<sup>c</sup>, C. Göschl<sup>b</sup>, W. Shi<sup>c</sup> and W. Busch<sup>a,b</sup>

<center><i><sup>a</sup>Salk Institute for Biological Studies, Plant Molecular and Cellular Biology Laboratory, and Integrative Biology Laboratory, USA</i> 

<center><i><sup>b</sup>Gregor Mendel Institute (GMI), Austrian Academy of Sciences, Vienna Biocenter (VBC), Austria</i> 

<center><i><sup>c</sup>State Key Laboratory of Soil and Sustainable Agriculture, Institute of Soil Science, Chinese Academy of Sciences, China</i> 

<center><i>Email: bli@salk.edu</i> 

<p style="text-align:justify">Iron (Fe) is the most important transition metal in all living
organisms, while it is also highly toxic to cells by generating hydroxyl
radical with the Fenton reaction. This Fe-dependent redox toxicity can
be used to prevent the spread of pathogen infection, but also inhibits
plant growth, reduces rice yield in flooded conditions or acerbates the
deficiency of other nutrients such as phosphate deficiency. In
agriculture, serious symptoms of Fe toxicity have been recognized in
rice for more than half a century. It is estimated that 19% of the total
area for rice production in Africa harbors a potential risk for Fe
toxicity. Therefore, engineering Fe toxicity tolerant rice varieties
would be highly desirable. However, more than twenty attempts over the
past two decades were not successful in identifying genes responsible
for the variation of Fe toxicity tolerance in rice using linkage and
association mappings. Thus, unlike several important molecular
components involved in Fe uptake, transport and homeostasis have been
identified in past decades, the genes and mechanisms are responsible for
plant tolerance to this Fe-dependent redox toxicity are largely unknown
in both plants and animals.

<p style="text-align:justify">We identified <i>S-nitrosoglutathione-reductase</i> (<i>GSNOR</i>) variants
underlying a major quantitative locus for root tolerance to Fe-toxicity
using genome-wide association studies in <i>Arabidopsis thaliana that</i> are
under much less artificial selection (domestication) compared with
crops. These GSNOR variants act largely through transcript level
regulation. GSNOR maintains root meristem activity under high Fe levels
and prevents cell death via inhibiting Fe-dependent nitrosative and
oxidative cytotoxicity, which reveals that nitric oxide is also required
to generating Fe-dependent redox toxicity. Moreover, we demonstrated
that <i>GSNOR</i> is required for root tolerance to Fe-toxicity throughout
higher plants such as legumes and monocots. Our findings not only shed
light the underlying quantitative genetic and molecular mechanisms of
plant adaptation to Fe-dependent redox toxicity, but also expose <i>GSNOR</i> 
as a prime target for genetic editing or marker-assisted breeding to
develop crop varieties tolerant to Fe-dependent toxicity and help to
increase rice productivity in regions with potential Fe toxicity.

