<center><strong>Closing the micronutrient loop: Exploration of selenium-rich bioproducts generated from (waste)water as micronutrient fertilizers</strong>

<center><strong>Jun Li<sup>a</sup></strong>, L. Otero-Gonzalez<sup>a</sup>, P. N. L. Lens <sup>b</sup> and G. Du
Laing<sup>a</sup>

<center><i><sup>a</sup> Laboratory of Analytical Chemistry and Applied Ecochemistry, Faculty of Bioscience Engineering, Ghent University, Belgium. </i> 

<center><i><sup>b</sup> IHE Institute for Water Education, The Netherlands.</i> 

<center><i>Jun.Li@UGent.be</i> 

<p style="text-align:justify">Selenium (Se) is an essential trace element for humans and animals with
a narrow window between deficiency and toxicity levels. Application of
conventional chemical Se fertilizers to increase the Se content in crops
could result in secondary soil and water contamination due to the low
utilization rate of Se. Therefore, it may be beneficial to produce
slow-release Se-enriched organic fertilizers locally from Se-containing
(waste)water. This may contribute to the worldwide drive for resource
recovery and circular economy. In this study, we aim to evaluate the
bioavailability of Se released from two Se-enriched biomaterials
(duckweed and anaerobic sludge) in soil, and to assess the potential of
these two biomaterials as Se fertilizers. Green beans were grown on
sandy and loamy soils fertilized with Se-enriched duckweed and anaerobic
sludge at rates equivalent to 1 and 5 mg Se/kg soil. Non-planted
treatments served as controls. The mobility and solubility of Se were
assessed by measuring the Se concentration in the soil pore water and in
the different bean tissues. The Se composition in the Se-enriched
duckweed and anaerobic sludge was analyzed by HPLC-ICP-MS and EXAFS
(Extended X-ray Absorption Fine Structure), respectively. Results showed
that Se was mainly present as the hexavalent selenate form in duckweed
and the zerovalent form in anaerobic sludge. The different Se species in
the two biomaterials resulted in distinct Se release patterns. After 3 d
of incubation, the application of 1 and 5 mg Se/kg soil of duckweed
increased the Se concentration in pore water to 537 and 4375 µg/L for
sandy soil, and 413 and 1238 µg/L for loamy soil, respectively; whereas
the sludge amendment of 1 and 5 mg Se/kg soil led to an increment of Se
content in pore water to 65 and 322 µg/L for sandy soil, and 72 and 387
µg/L for loamy soil, respectively. However, increasing the incubation
time from 3 to 42 d reduced the Se content in soil pore water by 92% for
sandy soil and 89% for loamy soil in non-planted treatments amended with
5 mg Se/kg soil of duckweed. The decrease of bioavailable Se followed a
second-order equation. By contrast, the Se concentration in the pore
water of soils supplied with sludge remained stable during the entire
incubation period. The application of Se-enriched duckweed and anaerobic
sludge significantly increased the Se concentration in the different
tissues of beans (seeds, leaves, stems, and roots), which was supported
by the positive correlation between Se in the soil pore water and Se in
the beans tissues. In addition, the Se concentration in beans fertilized
with sludge was 1 to 3 times higher than in those amended with duckweed.
The seeds of beans produced in this study could contribute to achieving
the recommended daily Se intake for human diets. Overall, Se-enriched
green beans were successfully produced after amending the soil with
Se-enriched duckweed and anaerobic sludge, demonstrating their potential
as organic Se-rich fertilizers for Se deficient regions.
