<center><strong>Biological transfer of dietary lead in
relation to <sup>15</sup>N fractionation and the gut microbiome in a soil
collembolan-predatory mite food chain</strong>

<center>W.C. Dai<sup>a, b</sup>, <strong>Zhu Li<sup>a</sup></strong>, X. Ke<sup>c</sup>, Y.M. Luo<sup>a</sup>, P. Christie<sup>a</sup>
and L. H. Wu<sup>a</sup>

<center><i><sup>a</sup> Key Laboratory of Soil Environment and Pollution Remediation,
Institute of Soil Science, Chinese Academy of Sciences</i>

<center><i><sup>b</sup> College of Resources and Environment, Southwest University</i>

<center><i><sup>c</sup> Institute of Plant Physiology and Ecology, Shanghai Institutes for
Biological Sciences, Chinese Academy of Sciences</i>

<center><i>Presenting author, E-mail: lizhu@issas.ac.cn</i>

<p style="text-align:justify">Abstract: Lead (Pb) pollution is a global environmental problem that
results in ecological and human health risks. Effects of Pb on single
species of collembolans and predatory mites have been studied in some
detail but Pb accumulation and biological transfer and the relationship
between Pb trophic transfer and nitrogen isotope fractionation and
changes in the gut microbiome through soil micro-arthropod food chains
remain poorly understood. A plate system experiment was conducted to
investigate the biological transfer and trophic toxicity of Pb and the
effects of dietary Pb exposure on <sup>15</sup>N in animal tissues and changes in
the gut microbiome in a soil collembolan (<i>Folsomia candida</i>) –
predatory mite (<i>Hypoaspis aculeifer</i>) food chain. Thirty-four- to
7-day-old <i>F. candida</i> were fed with wheat powder spiked with 0, 500,
and 1500 μg Pb g<sup>-1</sup> for four weeks and were then offered to 32-35
day-old <i>H. aculeifer</i> as prey for two weeks. Lead concentrations in
tissues of both the collembolan and its predator increased with
increasing total Pb in wheat. The Pb bioaccumulation factor (BAF)
between predatory mites and collembolans was 1.05-1.57 and was
significantly higher than that from wheat to collembolan. Diverse
microbial communities were observed in both the collembolan and predator
guts, consisting of (at phylum level) Proteobacteria (~77%),
Bacteroidetes (~12%), Firmicutes (~4%) and Actinobacteria (~2%) in
the collembolan gut and Proteobacteria (~93%) accounted for the most of
the microbes in the gut of the predatory mite. The <sup>15</sup>N fraction in the
collembolan and the predatory mite was negatively correlated with the
gene sequence number of COG (clusters of orthologous groups of proteins)
functional categories in energy production and conversion (collembolan
-0.693*, mite 0.683*), amino acid transport and metabolism
(collembolan -0.194, mite 0.696*) and defence mechanisms (collembolan
-0.688*, mite 0.688*). The <sup>15</sup>N fraction in collembolan and predatory
mite tissues increased significantly initially and then decreased with
increasing Pb in wheat, perhaps due to the significant shift in the gut
microbiome of those animals fed with Pb-contaminated food and their food
intake. The key microbe (Xanthobacteraceae) that contributed to nitrogen
cycling and organic matter decomposition decreased significantly in the
guts of both collembolans and mites. The <sup>15</sup>N and gut microbes in soil
animals have considerable potential as biomarkers of food Pb
contamination in soil food webs.
