<center><strong>Content, speciation, pollution and ecological risk of harmful trace
metals in agricultural soil around a thermal power plant</strong>

<center><strong>Xinwei Lu<sup>a</sup></strong>, Dongqi Shi<sup>a,b</sup> and Xiang Ding<sup>a</sup>

<center><i><sup>a</sup> School of Geography and Tourism, Shaanxi Normal University, China</i>

<center><i><sup>b</sup> School of Geography and Environment, Baoji University of Arts and
Sciences, China</i>

<center><i>luxinwei@snnu.edu.cn</i>

<p style="text-align:justify">Coal often contains various harmful trace metals with deferent content
levels owing to the specificity of coal-forming environment. These
harmful trace metals will discharge into the environment along with the
coal combustion and result in environmental degradation. To understand
the impact of coal-fired power on the surrounding soil environment, the
contents, speciation, pollution levels and ecological risks of some
harmful trace metals in agricultural soil around a thermal power plant
were investigated in this work. The topsoil samples of agricultural land
around Yuxia thermal power plant were collected and the contents of Cd,
Co, Cr, Pb, Cu, Mn, Ni and Zn in the samples were determined using
atomic absorption spectrometry. The speciation of the analysed trace
metals in the soil was determined using the modified European Community
Bureau of Reference sequential extraction procedure. Geo-accumulation
index and potential ecological risk index were used to assess their
pollution level and ecological risk. The results indicated that the
contents of Cd, Co, Cr, Pb, Cu, Mn, Ni and Zn in the agricultural soil
around Yuxia thermal power plant ranged from 3.7 to 6.6, 18.9 to 73.0,
124.4 to 195.6, 40.9 to 162.5, 23.8 to 102.9, 535.5 to 801.8, 33.1 to
48.4, and 24.2 to 189.5 mg/kg, with an average of 5.0, 46.1, 142.2,
77.5, 36.0, 663.3, 39.6 and 84.9 mg/kg, respectively. The mean contents
of all analysed harmful trace metal in the agricultural soil were higher
than their background values in local soil. The HOAc extractable form,
reducible form and oxidizable form of Cd in the soil were approximate,
i.e. respectively were 27.1%, 25.6% and 27.1%, which are higher than the
residual form (20.2%). Co was dominated by the HOAc extractable form.
Cr, Cu, Ni and Zn were mainly associated with the residual form. Mn and
Pb were dominated by the reducible form. The mobile fractions (the sum
of HOAc extraction form, reducible form and oxidizable form) of the
harmful trace metals in agricultural soil were Mn (93.2%) &gt; Cd
(79.8%) &gt; Co (70.5%) &gt; Pb (67.4%) &gt; Zn (48.8%) &gt; Cu (47.9%)
&gt; Ni (45.2%) &gt; Cr(21.9%). The calculated results of
geo-accumulation index showed that Mn, Ni and Zn were unpolluted, Cr and
Cu presented unpolluted to moderately polluted, while Co and Pb were
moderately polluted, and Cd was extremely polluted. The potential
ecological risk assessment results indicated that Cd had very high
ecological risk, while other trace metals had low ecological risk. The
overall ecological risks of the investigated harmful trace metals
measured in the samples were very high level, which mainly contributed
by Cd. As a result, the contents of Cd, Co and Pb in local groundwater
and crops should be further investigated in the future work.
