<center><strong>Ecotoxicological effects of arsenic on <i>Enchytraeus crypticus</i>:
morphology, survival, reproduction, growth and biomarkers</strong>

<center><strong>Simin Li <sup>a, b</sup></strong>, Z.
Li <sup>a</sup>, X. Ke <sup>c</sup>, Y.M. Luo <sup>a</sup>, P. Christie <sup>a</sup> and L.H. Wu <sup>a</sup>

<center><i><sup>a</sup> Key Laboratory of Soil Environment and Pollution Remediation, Institute of Soil
Science, Chinese Academy of Sciences, China</i>

<center><i><sup>b</sup> University of the Chinese Academy of Sciences, China</i>

<center><i><sup>c</sup> Institute of Plant Physiology and Ecology, Shanghai Institutes for
Biological Sciences, Chinese Academy of Sciences, China</i>

<center><i>smli@issas.ac.cn</i>

<p style="text-align:justify">There have been few ecological studies on the effects of arsenic (As) on
<i>Enchytraeus crypticus</i>. Effects on the morphology, survival,
reproduction, growth, and internal concentrations of As in <i>E.
crypticus</i> were investigated using the contact filter paper test and a
standard toxicity test in both artificially spiked and
naturally-contaminated soil. Oxidative stress was assessed by the
antioxidant enzymes and malondialdehyde at concentrations that have
non-lethal effects at different time intervals in a bioassay test.
Arsenic affected the morphology of <i>E. crypticus</i> more with increasing
pollution level and exposure time. Survival and reproduction tests in
artificially and naturally contaminated soil showed large differences.
Survival showed LC50 values in the artificially and naturally
contaminated soil of 78.2 and 565 mg kg<sup>-1</sup>, respectively. Reproduction
showed EC10 values of 6.72 and 84.0 mg kg<sup>-1</sup> in the spiked and
naturally polluted soil and corresponding EC50 values of 38.2 and 365 mg
kg<sup>-1</sup>, respectively. Body weight and body length of adults and
juveniles showed similar trends of decline with increasing As
concentration and the juveniles were more sensitive than the adults to
As. Comparing the endpoints of the ecotoxicity tests on <i>E. crypticus</i>,
reproduction was the most sensitive parameter followed by survival, body
weight and body length. Internal As concentrations in <i>E. crypticus</i> are
reported for the first time in the present study and increased with
increasing As concentration in artificially spiked soil. Significant
changes in the antioxidant defenses (CAT, POD and SOD) were induced,
indicating oxidative stress at the lower As concentration (15 mg kg<sup>-1</sup>)
over the longer exposure time (8 days) or at the higher concentration
(60 mg kg<sup>-1</sup>) over the shorter exposure time (2 days). An increase in
MDA with increasing exposure time and soil As concentration indicates
oxidative damage. This study has investigated ecotoxic effects of soil
As on <i>E. crypticus</i> in at different contamination levels, verified a
series of biological parameters indicating soil As pollution, and
provided information on the early diagnosis of soil As pollution using
biological indicators.
