<center><strong>Methylmercury in Chinese-grown and imported rice on sale in China:
implications for human exposure health risk</strong>

<center><strong>Xiaohang Xu<sup>a,b</sup></strong>, Jialiang Han<sup>a</sup>, Runsheng Yin<sup>c</sup>, Jian Pan<sup>d</sup>, Xun
Wang<sup>a</sup>, Yan Lin<sup>e</sup>, Yajie Wang<sup>f</sup> and Guangle Qiu<sup>a*</sup>

<center><i><sup>a</sup>State Key Laboratory of Environmental Geochemistry, Institute of
Geochemistry, Chinese Academy of Sciences, China</i>

<center><i><sup>b</sup>University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, China</i>

<center><i><sup>c</sup>State Key Laboratory of Ore Deposit Geochemistry, Institute of
Geochemistry, Chinese Academy of Sciences, China</i>

<center><i><sup>d</sup>Guizhou Normal University, China</i>

<center><i><sup>e</sup>Norwegian Institute for Water Research, Norway</i>

<center><i><sup>f</sup>College of Food Safety, Guizhou Medical University, China</i>

<center><i>xuxiaohang@vip.skleg.cn</i>

<p style="text-align:justify">In recent years, rice was found to have the methylmercury (MeHg), and
rice consumption was identified to be the major pathyway of MeHg
exposure in mercury (Hg) mining areas in China. As China is the largest
rice producer and consumer in the world, rice Hg and its associated
exposure risk has been of public concerns. Our objectives were to
thoroughly investigate total Hg (THg) and MeHg levels in rice sold in
Chinese market, and evaluate the exposures and risks of inorganic Hg
(IHg) and MeHg via rice intake for Chinese residents. The temporal trend
of Hg levels in Chinese producing rice and the Hg exposure were also
investigated. Rice samples of 767 brands were collected from Chinese
markets according to the producing areas. Results of THg and MeHg in
commercial rice were measured. Sensitivity and uncertainty was performed
by Monte-Carlo simulation. The exposures and risks of IHg and MeHg for
different age-gender groups were calculated under the conditions of
without and with consideration of bioaccessibilities of THg and MeHg.
The body weights and rice intake rates of different age-gender groups
are according to the Chinese National Nutrition and Health Survey. The
average rice THg and MeHg levels were 3.97±2.33 µg/kg and 1.37±1.18
µg/kg, respectively. The highest daily intake were obtained in younger
groups (2-4 years old for female and 4-7 years old for female),
accounting for 6% of the reference dose (RfD)-0.1 µg/kg bw/day for MeHg,
0.3% of the provisional tolerance week intake (PTWI)-0.571 µg/kg bw/day
for IHg. When considering the bioaccessibilities of THg and MeHg, the
values were much lower than those without considering
bioaccessibilities. Relatively lower concentrations than earlier studies
were found since 2007. This may suggest a declining temporal trend of
THg and MeHg in Chinese producing rice and associated Hg exposures.
Generally, Chinese residents met a low and safe MeHg and IHg exposure
via rice consumption. Effective Hg pollution control measures taken lead
to the decline of THg and MeHg levels in Chinese grown rice. In future,
more focus should be paid to effect of chronic Hg exposure of younger
groups, especially those in Hg polluted sites.
