<center><strong>Role of extracellular polymeric substances from Chlamydomonas reinhardtii in the biosorption of heavy metals</strong>

<center><strong>Chonghua Li<sup>a</sup></strong>, B. Yin<sup>a</sup>, C.H. Zhang<sup>b</sup> and Y. Ge<sup>a</sup>

<center><i><sup>a</sup> College of Resources and Environmental Sciences, Nanjing Agricultural University, China</i>

<center><i><sup>b</sup> College of Life Science, Nanjing Agricultural University, China</i>

<center><i>2018203012@njau.edu.cn</i>

<p style="text-align:justify">Heavy metals emission from mining, industrial activities and municipal
sewage discharge in water bodies has become a serious environmental
concern around the world, posing severe risks to human health and
agroecosystem because of their persistence in the environment.
Therefore, it is essential to seek effective methods to remediate heavy
metal pollution. Compared to conventional methods such as precipitation,
adsorption, ion exchange, membrane filtration, biosorption is regarded
as an efficient and cost-effective approach to remove metal ions from
the environment. Extracellular polymeric substances (EPS) are high
molecular weight products secreted by microorganisms (such as algae,
bacteria, etc.) and they are typically composed of polysaccharides,
proteins, nucleic acids and humic substances. It exhibits a dynamic
double-layered structure consisting of soluble-EPS (s-EPS) and bound-EPS
(b-EPS). Previous studies found that EPS could form an important
extracellular protective barrier on the algae cell surface, which can
prevent toxic metals from invading the intracellular environment.
Moreover, metals (e.g., Pb<sup>2+</sup>, Cd<sup>2+</sup>) also affect the production and
composition of EPS. Additionally, EPS have a variety of functional
groups (e.g., -COOH, -NH, -OH, etc.), which have significant effects on
the adsorption of metal ions by EPS. However, the binding mechanisms of
EPS with heavy metals in microalgae remain unknown. Here, we hypothesize
that the EPS yield and components of <i>Chlamydomonas reinhardtii</i>
increase significantly under the stress of heavy metals and this in turn
contributes to higher metal sorption capacity. We conducted several
experiments to verify our hypothesis. The tolerance of microalgae cells
and the contents of EPS were evaluated under various metal treatments
(Cd, Pb, Cu, Zn). To confirm the
combination of EPS with heavy metals, Three-dimension excitation
emission matrix fluorescence spectroscopy (3D-EEM) analyses were
performed to characterize the components of EPS. Our data show that the
total amount of EPS under the stress of Pb and Cu in the 4-d cultivation
increased 193%, 46% respectively. When <i>C. reinhardtii</i> was
inoculated in the TAP media with Cd<sup>2+</sup>, Zn<sup>2+</sup>, the content of proteins
in EPS increased. The 3D-EEM analyses demonstrated that tyrosine-like
substances and tryptophan were observed at the Ex/Em of 225/324 and
280/337 respectively, and the fluorescence intensity of EPS decreased
gradually along with the increase of concentration of four metals. These
results indicate that tyrosine-like substances and tryptophan in EPS may
play an important role in the adsorption of heavy metals by microalgae.
Overall, it can be concluded that the increase of EPS and their
components in response of
heavy metals may be one effective way to reduce the metals toxicity.
Further research is onging to reveal the impact of
EPS on the binding capcity of different heavy metals <i>C. reinhardtii</i>.
