<center><strong>Novel insight into the adsorption and co-adsorption of Cd(II) and
As(V) by magnetic graphene nanomaterials in water</strong>

<center>D. Huang<sup>a,b</sup>, J. Wu<sup>a,b</sup> and <strong>Jianming Xu<sup>a,b</sup></strong>

<center><i><sup>a</sup> Institute of Soil and Water Resources and Environmental Science, College of Environmental
and Resource Sciences, Zhejiang University, China</i>

<center><i><sup>b</sup> Zhejiang Provincial Key Laboratory of Agricultural Resources and
Environment, Zhejiang University, China</i>

<center><i>jmxu@zju.edu.cn</i>

<p style="text-align:justify">A simple method was employed to prepare stable, magnetic graphene
oxide, with few layers (MGO), by loading
graphene oxide (GO) onto Fe<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> nanoparticles. Magnetic chemically
reduced graphene (MCRG) and magnetic annealing reduced graphene (MARG)
were prepared from the reduction of MGO with hydrazine hydrate and
thermal reduction at 500 °C, respectively. The
adsorption of Cd(II) and As(V) by MGO, MCRG and MARG were
investigated to determine their adsorption
properties and molecular mechanisms. The adsorption of
Cd(II) and As(V) was
pH-dependent and their adsorption capacities followed the order: MGO
&gt; MCRG &gt; MARG. Therefore, MGO was
selected to systematically study their
adsorption behavior in the binary system of Cd(II) and As(V).
The maximum adsorption capacities of MGO were
234 mg/g for Cd(II) and 14 mg/g for As(V). The superiority of MGO was mainly
attributed to its high dispersibility, thin nanosheets and
various O-containing functional groups.
The adsorption of Cd(II) and As(V) in the co-adsorption system was
increased by 65% and 30%, respectively. This synergistic
effect resulted from electrostatic attraction and the formation of type
A ternary surface complexes.These new results are valuable for determining the interaction
mechanisms, and for designing novel
adsorbents, for traditional and emerging pollutants in the environment.
