<center><strong>Environmental impacts of acid mine drainage irrigation on paddy soil
in karst region: an experimental study</strong>

<center><strong>Tianling Fu<sup>a,b</sup></strong>, Y. G. Wu<sup>b</sup>, Y. C. Qin<sup>b</sup>, G. H. Liu<sup>c</sup>, H.
Wang<sup>b</sup>, Y. F. Luo<sup>b</sup>

<center><i><sup>a</sup> Institute of New Countryside Development Studies, Guizhou
University, China</i>

<center><i><sup>b</sup> College of Resources and Environmental Engineering, Guizhou
University, China</i>

<center><i><sup>c</sup> Institute of Soil and Fertilizer, Guizhou Academy of Agricultural
Sciences, China</i>

<center><i>yfhb31@126.com</i>

<p style="text-align:justify">Acid mine drainage (AMD) generated from mining activities has caused
serious environmental concerns such as soil and water contamination and
ecosystem destruction in the center karst region of Southwest China. The
environmental pollution problems especially for soil ecosystem
destruction caused by AMD have been extensively studies in recent years.
The previous studies in this field have concentrated on the red soil
system, however, have failed to consider the karst soil system.
Especially for the study about the AMD contamination of paddy soil
system in the vulnerable karst area has not yet been reported. Thus, the
objective of this study was to evaluate environmental impacts of AMD
irrigation on karst paddy soil. The findings in this study should have
certain theoretical and practical significance in preventing the
environmental pollution from mining activities. In this study, we chose
the karst regions in Southwest China as the study area, where paddy
ecosystem and AMD from coal gangue dumps were selected to be the
research object. Through the addition of different levels of AMD to
simulate continuous sewage irrigation. The physicochemical and
biochemical parameters such as pH, EC, Eh, Fe, Mn, Cu, Zn, SO<sub>4</sub><sup>2-</sup>,
urease, phosphatase, and catalase activity were investigated to assess
the effects of long-term irrigation with AMD on paddy soil. The results
showed that the paddy soil have a good buffer performance for acidity
under the lower pollution level of AMD. However, long-term
high-intensity continuous pollution of AMD could lead to significant
acidification of overlying water and paddy soil, and significantly
increase the salinity of overlying water and paddy soil, and
significantly change the redox environment conditions of the original
paddy soil system. The continues pollution of AMD could significantly
increase the concentration of contaminant such as iron, manganese,
sulfate, and heavy metals in the overlying water. These contaminants in
the overlying water could be reduced by the adsorption effect and buffer
system of paddy soils under lower level of AMD, however, the adsorbed
contaminants (Mn, Cu, and Zn) by paddy soil could be released into
overlying water under higher level of AMD. The microbial biomass,
urease, and phosphatase activity could also be significantly reduced
under higher level of AMD. A large amount of H<sup>+</sup> and rich iron ions
from AMD addition could significantly promote the decomposition of
H<sub>2</sub>O<sub>2</sub> causing false positive trend of hydrogen peroxide enzyme
activity continue to increase. In conclusion, the physicochemical and
microbial characteristics of paddy soil in the karst region will be
significantly changed under the long-term irrigation and pollution of
AMD and ultimately severely threaten to the environmental quality of
paddy soil ecosystem.
