<center><strong>Lead was passivated in soil solid and mobilized in soil solution with
phosphate amendment</strong>

<center><strong>Qiao Xu<sup>a</sup></strong>, B.H. Ye<sup>b</sup>, J.E. Ye<sup>a</sup>, W.Y. Liu<sup>a</sup> and J.Y. Shi<sup>a,*</sup>

<center><i>a Department of Environmental Engineering, College of Environmental and
Resource Science, Zhejiang University, China.</i>

<center><i>b Chengbang Eco-Environment Co., Ltd. China</i>

<center><i>18202757567@163.com</i>

<p style="text-align:justify">The solid-solution partitioning of heavy metals in paddy soil is of
great importance to evaluate their availability. It has been well
established that phosphate can passivate most of Pb in soil by
precipitation. However, it might also facilitate the dissolution of
heavy metals in the soil and thus increase their environmental risk, and
the initial reason for this is still unclear. To obtain an overall
insight in the effect of phosphate in the distribution of Pb in paddy
soil, a culture experiment was performed with phosphate added, EDTA as
well as Diffusive gradients in thin films (DGT) and in-situ solution
extraction methods were used to represent different available Pb
content. Supplement of KH<sub>2</sub>PO<sub>4</sub> significantly increased the content of Pb
and Fe/Al in soil solution while showed no influence on the
DGT-extracted Pb, which means the increase of soluble Pb might be due to
an increase of complex Pb in soil solution. In addition, the amount of
Al in colloids separated from soil solution were also enhanced with
KH<sub>2</sub>PO<sub>4</sub> treated, which might elevate the possibility for the combination
of colloids and Pb<sup>2+</sup>. Moreover, a change of surface roughness of soil
aggregates in KH<sub>2</sub>PO<sub>4</sub> treated group was observed by scanning electron
microscope (SEM), and this was conducive for soil solid to retain more
Pb with more adsorption sites. Otherwise, Fourier transform infrared
spectrometer (FTIR) combined X-ray absorption near-edge spectroscopy
(XANES) analyses claimed that flooding condition promoted the
transformation of inorganic-P to organic-P, the latter of which possibly
participated in the complexation of Pb in soil. As above, the addition
of phosphate (KH<sub>2</sub>PO<sub>4</sub>) in soil could enhance the retention of Pb in soil
solid by precipitating with Pb and increasing the surface-adsorption
capacity of soil aggregates, thus immobilizing most of Pb in soil solid.
However, it might also elevate the mobilization of Pb by accelerating
the dissolution of metal ions (i.e. Fe, Al) and increasing the amount of
colloids, which could combine with Pb and increase its mobility in soil
solution.
