<center><strong>Insights into bacterial biofilms formation and corresponding ecological impacts in soils</strong>

<center><strong>Peng Cai</strong>, Y.C. Wu, C.H. Gao, and Q.Y. Huang

<center><i>State Key Laboratory of Agricultural Microbiology, College of Resources and Environment, Huazhong Agricultural University, China</i>

<center><i>cp@mail.hzau.edu.cn</i>

<p style=text-align:justify>Soil is increasingly under environmental pressures that alter its
capacity to fulfil essential ecosystem services. To maintain these
crucial soil functions, it is important to know how soil microorganisms
respond to disturbance or environmental change. Biofilm production is a
common trait among microorganisms in a wide range of environmental,
engineered, and host-associated ecosystems. However, as for soil
systems, the complexity of edaphic microenvironment hinders the advances
toward understanding soil biofilm formation processes, structure and
ecological functions. In this work, artificial soil was employed to
investigate the soil biofilm formation and corresponding ecological
impacts under well-defined conditions. []Our
results showed that soil biofilm formed under high-nutrient condition.
The soil with biofilm exhibited a rapid response to nutrient provision
and robust microbial activity, which depleted oxygen in the topsoil.
Kinetic respiration analysis revealed that soil biofilm sustained
40-times more active microbes than that without biofilm, while the
specific growth rates were comparable. 16S rDNA sequencing demonstrated
similar microbial communities under different nutrient conditions, while
the one with biofilm consisted of more diversified populations and
enriched <i>Bacilli</i>. Our finding provides novel insights about the
environmental prerequisite for soil biofilm formation which sustain a
diverse and robust community to impact soil biogeochemical processes.
