<center><strong>Distribution of dissolved trace elements amongst colloidal species in
soil solutions using asymmetrical flow field-flow fractionation (AF4)
coupled to ICPMS</strong>

<center><strong>Lina Du</strong><sup>a, b</sup>, C. W. Cuss<sup>a</sup>, W. Shotyk<sup>a</sup>, M. Dyck<sup>a</sup> and T. Noernberg<sup>a</sup>

<center><i><sup>a</sup> Department of renewable Resources, University of Alberta, Canada</i>

<center><i><sup>b</sup> College of Natural Resources and Environment, Northwest A& F University, China</i>

<center><i>lina.du@nwafu.edu.cn</i>

<center style=text-align:justify>he distribution and speciation of dissolved (&lt;0.45 µm) trace
elements (TEs) in soils have implications for their availability,
accessibility, and toxicity due to the distinct behavior of each
species. The speciation of TEs in soil solutions depends on soil factors
(e.g. moisture content, pH, redox potential, ionic strength, organic
matter concentrations and soil texture) and the chemical properties of
the elements. In this study we aimed to characterize the distribution of
TE species in soil solutions using asymmetrical flow field-flow
fractionation (AF4) coupled to ICPMS, and examined relationships between
speciation and soil properties. AF4-UV-ICPMS is a powerful method for
measuring the distribution of TEs among primarily ionic and small
species &lt; 1 nm, organic-dominated colloids, and primarily inorganic
colloids on the basis of molecular size. Eight sampling locations were
chosen from the University of Alberta Breton Plots and associated
Bentley Forest Reserve. Soil solutions were collected under vacuum using
a surgical (316) stainless steel lysimeters (5 micron pore size) after
applying high purity water (deionized, type II Milli-Q). Analyses were
performed in the metal-free, ultraclean SWAMP lab. The acid-cleaned
lysimeters yielded excellent blank values for most of trace elements of
environmental interest (Li, Al, Mn, Co, Ni, Cu, As, Mo, Cd, Ba, Tl, Pb,
Th and U). Using the new lysimeter combined with AF4-ICPMS, we provide a
new perspective on TE speciation in soil solutions, with a view towards
understanding the bioavailability of micronutrients and potentially
toxic trace elements.
