<center><strong>Response of interfacial water to arsenate adsorption at corundum
(001)-water interfaces</strong>

<center><strong>Tingying Xu<sup>a</sup></strong> and J. G. Catalano<sup>b</sup>

<center><i><sup>a</sup> Department of Earth Sciences, Biotechnology Institute & MnDRIVE, University of Minnesota - Twin Cities, USA</i>

<center><i><sup>b</sup> Department of Earth and Planetary Sciences, Washington University in St. Louis, USA</i>

<center><i>txu@umn.edu</i>

<p style=text-align:justify>Adsorption plays an essential role in geochemical reactions at
environmental interfaces because it not only directly controls
contaminant fate and nutrient availability in soils but also is an
important precursor step in many other processes such as the nucleation
of precipitates, microbial- or ligand-promoted dissolution of minerals,
and surface-initiated redox reactions. Adsorption reactions occur in the
mineral-water interfacial region, a chemical and structural transition
zone where surface sites in multiple coordination states displaying
distinct pH-dependent charging behaviour interact with both adsorbates
and water. While general ion adsorption mechanisms and the effects of
surface charge on interfacial reactions have been extensively studied,
little is known about the role of water in affecting ion adsorption
processes. In this study, resonant and non-resonant surface X-ray
scattering measurements have been used to investigate how interfacial
water responds to the addition of adsorbed arsenate at corundum
(001)-water interfaces over a range of pH conditions. The surface of
corundum (001) is terminated by doubly coordinated functional groups
that are neutrally-charged over a wide pH range. In the absence of
arsenate, our non-resonant X-ray reflectivity (XR) data show that
interfacial water displays weak ordering on this surface and little
variation in its structure is observed over the pH range of 5 to 9 in
0.01 M NaCl solution. This suggests that surface charging from
functional group protonation and deprotonation is inadequate to induce
extensive structural changes in interfacial water. In the presence of
arsenate, resonant anomalous X-ray reflectivity (RAXR) analyses have
been used to determine the arsenic distribution (i.e., surface coverage
and location) as a function of total arsenate concentrations. This is
then combined with XR measurements to isolate the interfacial water
structure at each experimental condition. Our results show that
interfacial water undergoes substantial restructuring upon arsenate
adsorption, indicating that a charged adsorbate greatly affects the
arrangement and order of interfacial water on this surface. In addition,
the overall interfacial water structure varies proportionally with
arsenate surface coverage, with adsorbed water sites moving closer to
the surface and the extended layering of interfacial water showing
reduced positional disorder as arsenate surface coverage increases. This
systematic variations in interfacial water properties with increasing
arsenate surface coverage are consistent with two distinct water
structures (one near sites of adsorbed arsenate and the other on the
pristine surface) that vary in proportion with arsenate surface
coverage. These observations demonstrate that the adsorption of arsenate
directly alters the structure of water near corundum (001) surfaces,
possibly through the modification of the charge state of surface sites
or by providing new sites to which water may hydrogen bond. Such
adsorbate-induced restructuring of interfacial water may represent an
overlooked energetic contribution to adsorption reactions, which may
thus reveal a potentially new process affecting contaminant and nutrient
fate in soil systems.

