<center><strong>Molybdenum bioavailability in agricultural soils with implications to
asymbiotic nitrogen fixation</strong>

<center><strong>Guanghui Yu<sup>a,b</sup></strong>, and F.S. Sun<sup>a,b</sup>

<center><i><sup>a</sup> Institute of Surface-Earth System Science, Tianjin University,Tianjin 300072, China</i>

<center><i><sup>b</sup> College of Resources & Environmental Sciences, Nanjing Agricultural University, Nanjing 210095, China</i>

<center><i>yuguanghui@tju.edu.cn</i>

<center style=text-align:justify>Interactions between microbes and minerals have the potential to
contribute significantly to the global cycles of various elements, and
serve as a link between the geosphere and life. In particular, the
microbially mediated cycle of molybdenum (Mo) within soils is closely
tied to the nitrogen cycle. Here, soil samples under four fertilization
treatments (Control, no fertilization; NPK, chemical nitrogen,
phosphorus and potassium fertilization; NPKM, NPK plus manure; and M,
manure alone) from a 25-year long-term field experiment sites in China
were examined. Both two-dimensional correlation spectroscopy (2DCOS) and
synchrotron-radiation-based micro X-ray fluorescence (µ-XRF)
spectromicroscopy were used to explore the binding site of Mo in soils.
The results showed that both NPKM and M increased bioavailable Mo over
1.7-fold when compared to Control and NPK treatments. In the soil
profile (0-80 cm), both NPKM and M also had a higher bioavailable Mo
than Control and NPK treatments. Furthermore, bioavailable Mo was
positively correlated with δ<sup>15</sup> N and wheat yield, sugggesting a
potential contribution of bioavailable Mo to nitrogen uptake by wheat.
Quantification of <i>nif</i>H genes in response to long-term fertilization
treatments indicated that both NPKM and M improved the abundance of
<i>nif</i>H genes when compared to NPK treatment.DithioniteCitrate-Bicarbonate (DCB) and acid ammonium oxalate
extractions suggested a significant increase of reactive iron. Both
2DCOS and µ-XRF showed that iron oxides played an important role in
sequestering bioavailable Mo. Together, these results indicate that
manure amendments improve the abailability of Mo, which may be retained
by reactive iron in agricultural soils.
