<center><strong>Prediction model for cadmium accumulation of rice and its implication to deduce soil thresholds for food safety</strong>

<center><strong>Tinging Mu<sup>a,b</sup></strong>, P. He <sup>a,c</sup>, T. Zhou<sup>a</sup>, J.W. Zhou<sup>a</sup> and L.H. Wu<sup>a</sup>

<center><i><sup>a</sup><i> </i>Key Laboratory of Soil Environment and Pollution Remediation, Institute of Soil Science, Chinese Academy of Sciences, China</i>

<center><i><sup>b</sup> University of the Chinese Academy of Sciences, China</i>

<center><i><sup>c</sup> College of Agronomy, Guizhou University, China</i>

<center><i>ttmu@issas.ac.cn</i>

<p style=text-align:justify>More and more researches are focused on soil quality standards applied
for agriculture production of rice in China, but the prediction model
based on soil type were the for different for rice cultivars with
different accumulation characteristics of toxic elements. This study
aimed to develop predication models for cadmium (Cd) transfer from paddy
soils across Chinese main rice producing parts to two rice cultivars
with extremely high and low ability for accumulating Cd. Thirty-three
paddy soils were collected and two rice cultivars were planted with four
replicates in the year of 2017 and 2018. “Yelicanghua” is a high grain
Cd rice cultivar (YLCH), “Longhuamaohu” is a low grain Cd rice cultivar
(LHMH). The results showed that the average brown rice Cd concentrations
grown on 33 soils were 0.26 (0.06-0.72) mg kg<sup>-1</sup>. The average
concentrations in rice were 0.14 (0.04-0.55) for “YLCH” and 0.03
(0.01-0.10) for “LHMH” in 2017 and 0.16 (0.02-0.66) for “YLCH” and 0.02
(0.01-0.15) for “LHMH” in 2018, respectively. The predication models
were developed using soil pH, organic carbon (OC) and total Cd
concentrations. Stepwise multiple linear regression analysis showed that
soil Cd and pH were significant variables contributing to high
accumulation rice cultivar but soil Cd, pH and OC were significant
variables contributing to low Cd accumulation rice cultivar across 33
paddy soils. The predication models were
Log[rice-Cd]=-0.097pH+0.602[Total-Cd]+0.078(R<sup>2</sup>=0.589, n=33,
P&lt;0.001) for high Cd cultivar (LHMH) and
Log[rice-Cd]=-0.156pH-0.528Log[Total-Cd]+0.445Log[OM] (R<sup>2</sup>=0.669,
n=33, P&lt;0.001) for low Cd cultivars (YLCH), respectively. Then the
soil thresholds for the two rice cultivars planting based on its
significant variables were deduced from the food safety standard.
Deducing soil threshold should take into account ability of accumulating
Cd.
