<center><strong>Foliar dressing with mineral elements (S and P) inhibit Cd accumulation in rice grain in Cd-contaminated paddy soil</strong>

<center><strong>Jiahao Liu<sup>a,b</sup></strong>, H. Hou<sup>b</sup>, L. Zhao<sup>b</sup> and H. Li<sup>c</sup>

<center><i><sup>a</sup> Institute of Loess Plateau, Shanxi University, China</i>

<center><i><sup>b</sup> State Key Laboratory of Environmental Criteria and Risk Assessment, Chinese Research Academy of Environmental Sciences, China</i>

<center><i><sup>c</sup> School of Environmental Sciences and Resources, Shanxi University, China</i>

<center><i>tiffanyaliu@163.com</i>

<p style=text-align:justify>Cadmium (Cd)-contaminated paddy soil has become a global agricultural
safety issue. The application of foliage dressing with mineral elements
to alleviate Cd toxicity and reduce Cd uptake in rice might offer a
cost-effective and practical strategy for safe food production. In the
present study, a pot experiment was conducted to select the optimum
foliar composition and dosage. Field experiments in two consecutive rice
seasons were carried out to investigate the effectiveness and mechanisms
of foliage dressing. Foliar spray of S, P, and a mixture of both were
effective treatments to reduce Cd concentration in rice grain. The S and
P sprays had the ability to change Cd translocation from roots to
aboveground parts and change the bioconcentration factor of aboveground
parts. The maximum leafâ€“grain translocation factor decrease rate was
84%, and a maximum bio-concentration factor decrease rate of 69% was
observed in the stem. Foliar dressing reduced the adverse effect of Cd
and enhanced plant height, yield, photosynthesis, and physiological
characteristics. Multiple stepwise regression further highlighted the
significant role of leaf Cd, peroxidase, catalase, glutathione, and
photosynthesis in determining grain Cd. Foliar spray with S is likely to
reduce Cd accumulation in rice grain via minimizing reactive oxygen
species production by improving activities of enzymatic and
non-enzymatic antioxidant defense systems and manipulating glutathione
synthesis. The detoxification of foliar-applied P was mainly due to
decreased Cd translocation and maintaining photosynthetic machinery.
These results indicate that foliage dressing with mineral elements has
great potential for the remediation of vast agricultural fields.
