<center><strong>Sediments in mining-impacted fluvial system: sources and sinks of
antimony in river basins</strong>
<center><strong>Ling Li<sup>a</sup></strong>, P. Wu<sup>b, c*</sup>, T.Z. Liu<sup>a</sup>, H. Tu<sup>b</sup>, S. Zhang<sup>c</sup> and Y. Tang<sup>a</sup>


<center><i><sup>a</sup> State Key Laboratory of Environmental Geochemistry, Institute of
Geochemistry, Chinese Academy of Sciences, China </i>

<center><i><sup>b</sup> College of Resource and Environmental Engineering, Guizhou
University, China</i>

<center><i><sup>c</sup> Key laboratory of Karst Environment and Geohazard, Ministry of Land
and Resources, China</i>

<center><i>liling@vip.skleg.cn</i>

<p style=text-align:justify>The Antimony (Sb), as a toxic element and a global environmental
contaminant, has recently attracted increasing attention from both
scientific and public community. Higher concentrations of Sb are usually
resulted from anthropogenic activities, and particularly high Sb
concentrations are found in the waters from mining areas and smelter
sites. China is a country with the most abundant Sb resources with huge
reservation and productivity on top of the world; Sb pollution has
become one of the typical environmental issues in China.

<p style=text-align:justify>Due to the lack of corresponding management measures in early mining,
however, a large number of mine wastes left over from history mining
were discharged in disorder, some of which were dumped or piled directly
in the streams of the mining area. Most of them were washed into the
river bed by water flow and became one of the most important parts of
sediments in the mining-impacted rivers. Usually, mine waste piles are
exposed to the surface environment during the dry season, while they are
submerged in rainy season. According to our study results, it is
obviously that near-neutral circumstance combined with wet-dry cycle
forms the favorable condition for the release of Sb from the mine wastes
(sediments). Meanwhile, our study on the release and migration
characteristics of Sb in the main stream of the river basin showed that
the dissolved Sb contents flowing through the reservoir have increased
in varying degrees. The reason is that the sediments at the bottom of
the reservoir would release Sb into the waters under reducing
conditions. So, contaminated stream sediments are the important sources
of Sb in the river basins.

<p style=text-align:justify>In addition, research on the transportation and transformation of Sb in
the mining-impacted fluvial system showed that a proportion of Sb were
removed in the rivers due to adsorption onto particulate matter, whereas
migration of Sb in the downstream of mine area was attributed to
dispersion in dissolved forms. It was found that downstream sediments
had elevated concentrations of mining-derived Sb, but there was a
significant decrease in concentration of Sb in aqueous phase, suggesting
that Sb behavior was conservative in the water-sediment systems under
the oxic conditions prevailing in these waters. In a sense, Sb entering
fluvial sediments through physical transport and natural sedimentation
forms a sink of Sb in the river basin under oxidative environment.

<p style=text-align:justify>In view of the importance of sediments in mining-impacted fluvial system
as the sources and sinks of Sb in the river basins, it can be seen that
the Sb pollution on the river basins will be long-lasting. Therefore, we
need to strengthen the risk assessment of Sb release from sediments in
the river basins, and management strategies implemented.

