<center><strong>Total mercury distribution in different crops at Wanshan mercury mining area, China: implication for managing mercury risk</strong>

<center><strong>Jicheng Xia <sup>a,b</sup></strong>, C. W.N. Anderson<sup>c</sup>, J. Wang <sup>a</sup> and X. Feng <sup>a</sup>

<center><i><sup>a</sup> Institute of Geochemistry, Chinese Academy of Sciences, P.R. China</i>

<center><i><sup>b</sup> College of Earth and Planetary Sciences, University of Chinese
Academy of Sciences, P.R. China</i>

<center><i><sup>c</sup> Institute of Agriculture and Environment, Massey University, New
Zealand</i>

<center><i>xiajicheng@mail.gyig.ac.cn</i>

<p style=text-align:justify>Soil surrounding mercury (Hg) mining areas (MMAs) is heavily
contaminated with Hg, causing Hg contamination in crops grown from the
soil. The inhabitants living in MMAs are exposed to Hg by consumption of
Hg-contaminated crops. Therefore, the management for safety crop
production at MMAs is necessary to protect the human health. Wanshan
mercury mining area (WMMA) located Guizhou province, China, was studied
to screen the crops that are low Hg accumulative, based on the
distribution of Hg in air, soil and crops. The Hg concentrations in the
atmospheres at the study sites greatly exceeded those at background
sites. Mercury concentrations in soil range from 0.6 to 943.6 mg kg<sup>-1</sup>.
The total Hg concentrations in the edible parts of 43 types of crops
vary greatly from 2.4 to 1274.9 μg kg<sup>-1</sup>. The edible part of five of
the crops (radish, strawberries, corn and potato), which were grown
within respective soil Hg concentrations, had Hg concentrations lower
than the Chinese National Food Quality Standard. We plant these four
category crops into two Hg-contaminated farmlands in the second year,
had Hg concentrations lower, too. These crops are deemed low Hg
accumulative crops. Based on these results and on the database of land
use, a safety agricultural regulation scheme is proposed, which can
largely ensure the original agricultural use of farmland and the
benefits to farmers by encouraging them to grow these low
Hg-accumulative crops. By adapting to this new scheme, the Hg exposure
in local inhabitants in MMAs could be significantly reduced.
