<center><strong>Effect of slag fertilizer and biochar on greenhouse gas emission from
paddy soil and rice growth</strong>

<center><strong>Qian Li <sup>a</sup></strong>, T. Nagasawa <sup>a</sup>, T. Tanimichi <sup>b</sup> and K. Inubushi <sup>a</sup>

<center><i><sup>a</sup>Graduate School of Horticulture, Chiba University, Japan</i>

<center><i><sup>b</sup>Faculty of Horticulture, Chiba University, Japan</i>

<center><i>liqian0223@yahoo.co.jp</i>

<center><strong>INTRODUCTION</strong>

<p style=text-align:justify>Ten % of greenhouse gas is methane (CH<sub>4</sub>) produced from the paddy field
on the earth<sup>,</sup> s surface. The Global Warming Potential (GWP) of CH<sub>4</sub>
is about 25 times than that of CO<sub>2</sub> (IPCC, 2007). CH<sub>4</sub> emission from
paddy soil will changed by the fertilizer we used. A pot experiment was
conducted to evaluate the effects of application of slag fertilizer
(Material M) and biochar on methane emission, soil chemical property
(pH) and rice growth, yields.

<center><strong>MATERIALS AND METHODS</strong>

<p style=text-align:justify>The pot experiment was conducted from May 13 to September 21, 2018.
Three kg sandy soil was placed into plastic pot (3L), five treatments
were set up as allows: (1) NPK (39kg/10a); (2) NPK＋slag fertilizer
(200kg/10a); (3) NPK＋biochar (1%); (4) NPK＋slag fertilizer
(200kg/10a)＋biochar (1%); (5) soil only, all with 3 replications and
three rice seedlings. All with top dressing twice with urea (0.125g) at
Day 41-51 with mid-drainage. CH<sub>4</sub> flux was measured by closed chamber
method and gas chromatograph, soil pH was measured with pH meter.

<center><strong>RESULTS AND DISCUSSION </strong>

<p style=text-align:justify>Soil pH after harvesting was increased by slag fertilizer and biochar,
because slag fertilizer and biochar contains alkaline. Soil Total C
increased by biochar, which is considered to contribute to carbon
sequestration. Total N was not significantly different in each
treatment. There was also a tendency that the soil solution pH increased
in slag fertilizer and biochar treatments, but there was not much
difference. Total CH<sub>4</sub> emission during crop season from slag fertilizer
treatment decreased about 28% compared with NPK treatment, biochar
treatment decreased about 35% compared with NPK treatment, slag
fertilizer＋biochar treatment decreased about 47% compared with NPK
treatment. Panicle number and tiller number increased compared with
chemical fertilizer treatment. Combined application of slag fertilizer
and biochar also increased the field grain. Interaction to trace
elements is discussed.
