<center><strong>Redox property of pyrogenic carbon and its effect on fate of arsenic
during microbial reduction of ferrihydrite</strong>
<center><strong>Song Wu<sup>a</sup></strong>, GD Fang<sup>b</sup>, C Liu<sup>b</sup>, YJ Wang<sup>b</sup> and DM Zhou<sup>a,b,*</sup>


<center><i><sup>a</sup> School of the Environment, Nanjing University, China</i>

<center><i><sup>b</sup> Institute of Soil Science, Chinese Academy of Sciences, China</i>

<center><i>songwu@nju.edu.cn</i>

<p style=text-align:justify>Pyrogenic carbon has redox properties that allow it to participate in a
series of biogeochemical redox reactions. However, studies on the redox
properties of pyrogenic carbon have, until recently, been concerned with
the development of electrochemical quantification methods.

<p style=text-align:justify>In this study, we investigated the redox properties of pyrogenic carbon
and its enhanced performance in a microbial extracellular electron
transfer system when it is functionalized with oxygen (HNO<sub>3</sub> oxidation)
or nitrogen (pyrolysis in NH<sub>3</sub> atmosphere)-containing functional
groups. Both oxygen-functionalized and N-doped pyrogenic carbons
promoted the rate and extent of ferrihydrite reduction by <i>Shewanella
oneidensis</i> MR-1. For the oxygen-functionalization, it increased the
electron exchange capacity (EEC) of pyrogenic carbon, which was
responsible for the enhancement of the microbial reduction of
ferrihydrite. This conclusion was supported by the presence of
quinone/hydroquinone groups and strongly positively correlation between
the EEC and the content of C=O groups. For the N-doping, it increased
the EEC and the electrochemical capacitance of pyrogenic carbon, which
were responsible for the enhanced ferrihydrite reduction. X-ray
photoelectron spectroscopy, electrochemical, and electron paramagnetic
resonance analyses suggested the increase in the pyrrolic-N and
pyridinic-N group contents in pyrogenic carbon played a dominant role in
elevating the EEC and the electrochemical capacitance of pyrogenic
carbon, and finally the rate for ferrihydrite reduction. The improved
electron transfer rate due to surface functionalization favors the
environmental and agronomic applications of pyrogenic carbon from a
biogeochemical redox perspective.

<p style=text-align:justify>Microbial reduction of arsenic (As)-bearing Fe(III)-(oxyhydr)oxides is
one of the major processes for the release of As in various
environmental settings such as acid mine drainage, groundwater, and
flooded paddy soil. Then, the fate and transformation of As during
pyrogenic carbon facilitated microbial reduction of As-bearing
ferrihydrite were investigated. Our results show that the pyrogenic
carbon facilitated reduction caused the release of As(III) into the
solution, whereas it caused the preferential immobilization of As(V) on
the solid phase. Furthermore, pyrogenic carbon accelerated the
precipitation of vivianite and siderite in sequence during microbial
reduction processes. Both of the formed vivianite and siderite had an
insignificant capacity for capturing As(III); however, As(V) was
selectively immobilized by vivianite compared to that of siderite. Taken
together, our findings provide crucial insights into understanding the
role of pyrogenic carbon on the redox and immobilization of Fe and As in
suboxic and anoxic environments and thus their environmental fate when
it is employed for agronomic and environmental applications.

