<center><strong>A Novel Ball Milled Fe<sup>0</sup>@biochar Composite for Aqueous Hexavalent
Chromium Removal: Influential Factors and Removal Mechanisms</strong>

<center><strong>Jingchun Tang</strong> and K. Wang

<center><i>College of Environmental Science and Engineering, Nankai University, Tianjin 300071, China</i>

<center><i>tangjch@nankai.edu.cn</i>

<p style=text-align:justify>Nano zero valent iron (nZVI) has long been used as an effective
reductant for the treatment of a wide array of environmental
contaminants including halogenated organic compounds, nitro aromatic
compounds, arsenic, nitrate, azo dyes, and heavy mental ions. However,
major challenges still remain unresolved for field applications of nZVI.
High-energy mechanical ball milling (BM) is an easy-to-operate, low-cost
and efficient solid-state powder processing technique. No studies have
been reported about the preparation of ball milled nZVI-biochar and
mechanism on the effectiveness of Cr(VI) removal by ball milled
nZVI-biochar have been investigated. A novel Fe0@biochar was synthesized
by ball milling method for the first time and tested for Cr(VI) removal
in aqueous solution. FTIR, SEM, TEM, XRD was used to characterize the
properties of the composite. Longer ball milling time and acidic
condition were favorable for Cr(VI) removal. Biochar pyrolysis
temperature had a significant impact on Cr(VI) removal, and removal
efficiency improved from 49.6% to 97.8% when pyrolysis temperature
varied from 300℃ to 700℃. Graphene structure in biochar at higher
pyrolysis temperature acting as electron conductor promoted electron
transfer from Fe0 to Cr(VI). The main removal mechanisms were adsorption
by functional groups, electrostatic interaction and subsequently
reduction. Ball mill could depassivate the Fe0@biochar for its
regeneration on Cr(VI) removal. Comparing with traditional preparation
method for Fe0@biochar, ball milling avoided the contamination of
chemicals and the preparation conditions were easy to realize, which is
environmental friendly and economic. The composite could also be
regenerated by ball milling after several cycles of usage. Therefore,
the ball milled Fe0@biochar composite had a promised prospect in field
application as reactive barrier for ground water remediation.
