<center><strong>Mechanistic investigation into the enhanced elimination of roxsarsone by sludge-based biochar supported nano zero-valent iron</strong>
<center><strong>Bingyu Li<sup>abc</sup></strong>, D. Wei <sup>abc</sup>, Y. Zhou<sup>abc</sup>, J. Yu<sup>abc</sup> and M. Lei<sup>abc*</sup>


<center><i><sup>a</sup><i>College of Resource & Environment, Hunan Agricultural University, P. R. China</i>

<center><i><sup>b</sup>Hunan Engineering Research Center for Safe and High-Efficient
Utilization of Heavy Metal Pollution Farmland, P. R. China</i>

<center><i><sup>c</sup>Hunan Engineering & Technology Research Centre for Irrigation Water Purification, P.R. China</i>

<center><i>libingyu2084@stu.hunau.edu.cn</i>
<p style=text-align:justify>The aromatic organoarsenic compounds (e.g., roxsarsone) has been widely used in breeding industry
as feed additives in China for decades. Due to its poorly metabolized by
livestocks, roxsarsone (ROX) is excreted in original form through animal
urine and feces. After being released into environment, ROX can be
transformed into carcinogenic inorganic arsenic (As) species via biotic
and abiotic reactions in natural environments, which lead to the
widespread contamination of farmland soil and aquatic ecosystems. Thus,
the exploitation of effective measures for the rapidly and safely
elimnation of organoarsenic compounds are of significant urgency. In
this study, bi-functionalized sludge-based biochar supported nano
zero-valent iron (NZVI-SBC) composites have been successfully
synthesized through simply modified liquid phase reduction method.
Characterization results (e.g., SEM, TEM and XPS) manifested that NZVI
has been succesfully incorporated into the biochar bulk martrix.
Adsorption batch experiments revealed that NZVI-SBC has a unexpected
higer adsorption capacity (up to 2500 mg/g at 318.15K) than the pristine
biochar. Kinectics studies uncovered that removal processes of ROX
followed a pseudo-second-order kinetic model, and the adsorption
behavior was highly pH dependent. Based on the results of UV-VIS
spectra, FTIR, XPS, LC-AFS and UHPLC-QTOF-MS, the synergistic effect of
adsorption and degradation was the pivotal factor for the unexpected
higher adsorption capacity towards to ROX by NZVI-SBC. In review of all
the experiment data, the removal mechanisms are, therefore, speculated
that the attack of As-C bond by hydroxyl radical which generated from
the NZVI corrosion in aqueous solutions, which determinated the higer
removal capacity of NZVI-SBC for ROX. This study demonstrated that
NZVI-SBC has great potential for the remediation of organoarsenic
compounds contaminated wastewater.

