<center><strong>Sufficient sulfur supply enhances iron uptake and reduces cadmium toxicity and accumulation in rice</strong>

<center><strong>Ying Ge<sup>a</sup></strong>, Z.Y. Wu<sup>a</sup>, S. Naveed<sup>a</sup> and C.H. Zhang<sup>b</sup>

<center><i><sup>a</sup> College of Resources and Environmental Sciences, Nanjing
Agricultural University, P.R. China</i>

<center><i><sup>b</sup> College of Life Science, Nanjing Agricultural University, P.R.
China</i>

<center><i>yingge711@njau.edu.cn</i>

<p style=text-align:justify>Cadmium (Cd) contamination in paddy soils have become a serious threat
to food safety around the globe as a result of industrial emissions,
mining, wastewater irrigation, as well as fertilizers and pesticides
applications. Rice (<i>Oryza sativa</i> L.), a staple crop for the world
population, is especially prone to pollution of this hazardous metal
because of Cd mobility in paddy soils and accumulation in rice grain. In
addition, iron (Fe) is a nutrient element required for the proper
functions in organisms. Unfortunately, its uptake by rice may be
inhibited in the presence of Cd, exacerbating the problem of Fe
deficiency and further threatening the human health. Therefore, it is
urgent to search for approaches to simultaneously enhance Fe absorption
and minimize Cd accumulation by rice.

<p style=text-align:justify>Sulfur (S) is another essential nutrient in plants and plays critical
roles in a number of cellular processes, including redox cycles,
detoxification of heavy metals and xenobiotics, and metabolism of
secondary products. In recent years, remarkable progress has been made
in understanding interactions between S and Fe, particularly the impact
of S on the mobility of Fe in plants. On the other hand, it is well
known that S supply affects the translocation and toxicity of Cd in rice
through the formation of CdS precipitates, or complexation of Cd with
thiol compounds such as glutathione (GSH), and phytochelatins (PCs).
More importantly, nicotianamine (NA) is involved in the transport of Fe
in rice phloem by forming Fe-NA and its biosynthesis is also affected by
the S nutrition. However, the connections among S, Cd and Fe in terms of
their distribution in rice remain unknown. Here, we hypothesized that S
supply could mediate the competition between Cd and Fe for the entry to
rice roots and translocation to stems and leaves, thus reducing the Cd
accumulation while increasing Fe concentration in these tissues.

<p style=text-align:justify>To test this hypothesis, we conducted a hydroponic experiment, in which
rice seedlings (cv. N07-63) were cultivated to examine the effect of S
application on Fe and Cd uptake and translocation in rice under two
levels of Cd (0 and 1.0 μmol L<sup>-1</sup>) combined with four S levels (0,
1.75, 3.5, 7.0 mmol L<sup>-1</sup>). Our data show that rice growth was
suppressed by Cd but the toxicity was alleviated with the S addition,
which also led to decline of Cd concentrations in rice roots, stems and
leaves. Iron was deposited on the surface of rice root as Fe plaque,
whose amount decreased with the increase of S supply. The Fe
concentrations in all three parts of rice were lowered by the Cd
treatments, but the S addition significantly increased the Fe levels in
rice roots, stems and leaves. At the same time, S supply promoted the
biosynthesis of thiol compounds and NA regardless of Cd treatment,
indicating that S was involved in the complexation of Cd/Fe with these
molecules and their movement in rice. Taken together, this study
demonstrates that sufficient S supply is beneficial to rice by improving
Fe nutrition and limiting Cd accumulation. More investigations are
needed to reveal the underlying mechanisms for the interactions among
the three elements in rice.
