<center><strong>High throughput measurement of drinking water with ICP-MS</strong>

<center><strong>Erle Gao<sup>a</sup></strong>, M.G.<sup>b</sup>, R.C.<sup>b</sup> and I. K.<sup>b</sup>

<center><i><sup>a</sup> Analytik Jena AG, China</i>

<center><i><sup>b</sup> Analytik Jena AG, Germany</i>

<center><i>el.gao@analytik-jena.com.cn</i>

<p style=text-align:justify>For labs routinely measuring a large number of samples, sample
throughput and the cost per sample are highly important. The experiment
has studied the influence of various parameters on sample throughput
while maintaining precision and accuracy. The robust and sensitive
performance of the PlasmaQuant MS allows a reduction in scan rates
resulting in increased sample throughput. The comparison shows that the
high sensitivity allows an adjustment of the measurement speed which
ultimately leads to more than 20% higher sample throughput. A method
will be presented allowing for the analysis of more than 80 drinking
water samples per hour according to regulations and methods like the US
EPA 200.8 which specifies the criteria for drinking water analysis by
means of ICP-MS. In this study, 21 elements (+3 internal standards) were
measured over 7 hours with an average RSD of 2.2 %. Interferences were
removed using the patented iCRC technology and quality control samples
were measured to verify accuracy, precision, robustness of the method.
The recovery rates of the quality control samples were between 90-105 %
during the entire measurement and were evaluated fully automatically by
the AspectMS software. The user friendly software, the lowest argon
consumption on the market and the unmatched sensitivity result in the
highest sample throughput and lowest cost per sample making the PQMS the
ideal solution for labs measuring routinely a large number of samples.
