<center><strong>Sulphur Application Associated With Water Management Enhance
Hyperaccumulator Extraction Rate And Decrease Rice Uptake Of Cadmium In
A <i>Sedum plumbizincicola</i> – <i>Oryza sativa</i> Rotation</strong>

<center>G.M. Wu<sup>a, b</sup>, <strong>Pengjie Hu<sup>a</sup></strong>, Y. M. Luo<sup>a</sup>, P. Christie<sup>a</sup> and L.
H. Wu<sup>a</sup>

<center><i><sup>a</sup> Key Laboratory of Soil Environment and Pollution Remediation,
Institute of Soil Science, Chinese Academy of Sciences, China</i>

<center><i><sup>b</sup> University of the Chinese Academy of Sciences, China</i>

<center><i>pjhu@issas.ac.cn</i>

<p style="text-align:justify">Suitable chemicals can promote or inhibit the dissolution of heavy
metals, which is not only related to the nature of chemical materials,
but also related to soil water conditions. Pot experiments were carried
out using two kinds of soils contaminated with cadmium (Cd), one is
alkaline (L-soil, Primosols, pH 8.0) and the other is neutral (T-soil,
Anthrosols, pH 6.5). Soils were amended with 0, 0.5, 1, 2 and 4 g kg<sup>-1</sup>
sulphur (S). The rotation of hyperaccumulator <i>Sedum plumbizincicola</i> in
drying and <i>Oryza sativa</i> (rice) in flooding was conducted. The results
showed that at the first 30 d of drying growth the oxidation of amended
S significantly decreased soil pH and increased soluble SO<sub>4</sub><sup>2-</sup>, Cd
and Mn in both soils. In rice season soil Eh decreased to below -150 mv
and pH increased to neutral at the first few days of flooding. Meanwhile
soluble SO<sub>4</sub><sup>2-</sup> and Cd at S treatments decreased significantly with
the prolongation of flooding time. Compared to the control, S treatments
promoted shoot Cd concentrations of <i>S. plumbizincicola</i> at 1.8 to 5.5
times in L-soil and 2.0 to 3.2 times in T-soil, while high dosage of S
treatments inhibited plant growth mainly because of Al toxicity under
low pH. Rice yields increased and Cd concentration decreased at suitable
S dosage. This study concluded that appropriate amendment of sulphur
according to soil properties associated with water management can be a
feasible method to enhance the Cd remediation efficiency by
hyperaccumulator and reduce the Cd accumulation in rice in rotation
system of Cd contaminated soils.
