<center><strong>Reduced Arsenic Mobility and Bioavailability in Paddy Soil with Iron
Based Amendments<strong>

<center><strong>Huan-Yun Yu<sup>a</sup></strong>, F. Li<sup>a</sup>, and W. Huang<sup>b</sup>

<center><i><sup>a</sup> Guangdong Institute of Eco-Environmental Science & Technology,
China</i>

<center><i><sup>b</sup> Department of Environmental Sciences, Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey, United States of America</i>

<center><i>hyyu@soil.gd.cn</i>

<p style=text-align:justify>Arsenic (As) contamination in paddy soil is of great public concern in
South China where rice is a staple food. Redox cycling of iron is known
to control As mobility and bioavailability, and soil amendment with
different Fe-based products is now a recommended farming practice for
enhancing iron redox reactivity and reducing As uptake by rice. However,
it is not known when it is the best time over the entire rice growth
stage for intervention that can maximize the cost-benefit with such a practice. This study investigated arsenic
mobility and bioavailability in paddy soil amended with different iron
constituents over the entire growth stage of rice plant. Pot experiments
were conducted using the same soil amended with: (1) amorphous Fe oxide,
(2) FeCl<sub>2</sub>, (3) FeCl<sub>2</sub>+NaNO<sub>3</sub>, along with two control soils of (4)
the untreated soil (control) and (5) amended with NaNO<sub>3</sub>. Samples of
soil, rice plant (whole plant sample and samples of grain, straw, and
root fractions) and Fe plaque on roots were collected at each of the
four rice growth stages of tillering, jointing, heading, and maturation
stages. The results showed that the whole rice plant at the heading
stage had the highest As contents. Significantly positive correlations
were found between the concentration of dissolved As in soil at the
heading stage and grain As or straw As at the maturation stage,
indicating the important contribution of bioavailable As at the heading
stage to As uptake in rice plants at the maturation stage. In addition,
As transfer coefficient from roots to the rice plant tissues above the
ground showed a decreasing trend at the heading stage, indicating a
lower translocation of As from roots to shoots at this stage. The study
suggested that the heading stage may be the key stage for intervention
in order to reduce As uptake by rice.
Meanwhile, Fe plaques at the root surface can reduce As mobility and
bioavailability by direct adsorption of As. Our data showed that the
concentrations of the mobile As in soils
were negatively correlated with the As contents in Fe plaques. It
appears that application of Fe-based products in soil for reducing As
accumulation in rice is a very promising practice.
