<center><strong>Microbial sulfate reduction enhances antimony mobility</strong>

<center><strong>Li Ye<sup>a</sup></strong> and C. Y. Jing<sup>a</sup>

<center><i><sup>a</sup> State Key Laboratory of Environmental Chemistry and Ecotoxicology,
Research Center for Eco-Environmental Sciences, Chinese Academy of
Sciences</i>

<center><i>liye_st@rcees.ac.cn</i>

<p style=text-align:justify>The biogeochemistry of antimony (Sb) and sulfur (S) are always coupled
together because of the strong affinity between Sb and S. Besides the
widespread stibnite (Sb<sub>2</sub>S<sub>3</sub>) mineral, aqueous Sb-S complexes,
so-called thioantimony, have been measured or modeled in several
previous studies. However, because the instability and detecting
difficulty of thioantimony, the role of thioantimony in Sb
biotransformation process remains unknown.

<p style=text-align:justify>Thioantimony are formed during the reaction between sulfide and
antimony. Sulfide in natural water is mainly generated by
sulfate-reducing bacteria (SRB), and SRB have simply been believed to
inhibit Sb mobilization via Sb<sub>2</sub>S<sub>3</sub> formation. However, our study
found that Sb release was greatly enhanced by SRB because of the
formation of dissolved thioantimonate. pe-pH diagrams suggested that in
most neutral Sb contaminated water (Sb concentration at μg/L level), it
is thioantimonate formed rather than Sb<sub>2</sub>S<sub>3</sub> in the presence of
biogenic sulfide. The formation of thioantimony promoted the
transformation from goethite to ferrihydrite. Even with higher surface
reactivity than goethite, the newly formed ferrihydrite failed to
reuptake thioantimonate, which finally causing Sb mobility. Fourier
transform ion cyclotron resonance mass spectrometric (FT-ICR MS) and the
density functional theory (DFT) calculation were conducted to explore
the thioantimonate formation mechanism. A new pathway was proposed based
on the direct reaction between antimonate and sulfide without redox
transformation. Multiple intermediates with six/five- coordinate
thioantimonate were detected by FT-ICR MS, and four-coordinate
thioantimonate was considered as the final stable product through
thermodynamic calculation. The insights gained from this study shed new
light on the effect of SRB in Sb mobilization and the role of
thioantimony in Sb biogeochemistry cycling.
