<center><strong>Antimony pollution in China: Problems and prospects </strong>

<center><strong>Mengchang He</strong>

<center><i>State Key Laboratory of Water Environment Simulation / School of
Environment, Beijing Normal University, China</i>

<center><i>hemc@bnu.edu.cn</i>

<p style=text-align:justify>China has the most abundant antimony (Sb) resources of any country in
the world. Antimony non-ferrous metal industry produced huge amounts of
solid wastes, waste water and atmospheric particulates, and release
large quantities of Sb and other heavy metals into the environment. In
addition, the uses of Sb compounds for polyethylene terephthalate (PET)
catalysis, brake pads and others, also cause some environmental
pollution. In recent years, many Sb pollution accident occurred in
China.

<p style=text-align:justify>Our group has been focused on the study on distribution, transport,
transformation and ecological effects of Sb in the environment. This
paper introduced the main antimony pollution from non-ferrous industry
in China including: (1) the main antimony ore types and the mining,
beneficiation and smelting situation; (2) the pollution characteristic
from antimony non-ferrous industry; (3) the leaching characteristics of
heavy metals in the Sb-bearing waste rock and ores; and (4) the
pollution of heavy metals in the environment around the typical Sb mine
area.

<p style=text-align:justify>China is facing serious antimony pollution problems, and the Chinese
government attaches great importance to the prevention and control of Sb
pollution. In the future, more research about Sb should shed light on
the missing information. International cooperation and exchanges also
need to be strengthened.
