<center><strong>Effects of antimony on soil microbial activity and community
diversity</strong>

<center><strong>Shuyuan Li</strong> and M.C. He

<center><i>State Key Laboratory of Water Environment Simulation / School of
Environment, Beijing Normal University, China</i>

<center><i>lsyuan@mail.bnu.edu.cn</i>

<p style=text-align:justify>When pollutants enter the
soil, they will adversely affect soil organisms, leading to a decline in
soil ecosystem function. Microbes are sensitive to heavy metal stress,
so microbial indicators are often used to assess soil pollution levels.
Soil antimony pollution is getting more and more serious with increasing
industrial use. In order to explore the effects of different
concentrations and different forms of antimony on microbial activity and
community diversity in different types of soil, four different types of
soils with different pH were selected for testing, different
concentrations and different forms of antimony were added to the
soil. The microbial
indicators such as effective antimony content, soil respiration
intensity, enzyme activity and nitrification rate will be measured
periodically. The soil microbial community structure and function will
be determined by high-throughput sequencing and gene chip. The purpose
of this study is to explore the relationship between microbial activity,
microbial community diversity and antimony concentration under different
soil types and different degrees of antimony pollution stress. It can
provide a reference for assessing the risk of soil antimony pollution.
