<center><strong>Sb and Fe behaviours in antimonial smelting slag reacted with <i>Shewanella</i>sp.</strong>

<center><strong>Lu Yu<sup>a</sup></strong>, Jianwei Zhou <sup>a</sup>, Jing Liu<sup>b</sup> and Xiaocen Jia <sup>a</sup>

<center><i><sup>a</sup> School of Environmental Studies, China University of Geosciences, China</i>

<center><i><sup>b</sup> College of Resources and Environment, Southwest University, China</i>

<center><i>mei836@126.com</i>

<p style=text-align:justify>With the rapid development and application of biochemical technology,
the biogeochemical behaviour interaction between microbial and metal
elements has become a research hotspot, especially the research about
relationship between microbial and toxic metal elements. Shewanella is a
facultative anaerobic iron-reducing bacterium. Studies have been
conducted to investigate the reaction of <i>Shewanella</i> sp. with various heavy
metals, including iron, arsenic, uranium, etc. <i>Shewanella</i> sp. can
reduce, precipitate and even remove heavy metals, so it is widely used
in sewage treatment. Yet, there are few articles discussing the
interaction between <i>Shewanella</i> sp. and antimony currently, especially
about antimonial smelting slag.

<p style=text-align:justify>In this research, the antimonial smelting slag is reacted with <i>Shewanella</i> sp. over 10 days at circumneutral pH conditions. The
changes in Eh, pH, dynamics and speciation of Sb and Fe are investigated
at room temperature. The results are as follows: (1) A large amount of
Fe<sup>3+</sup> released from smelting slag is preferentially reduced to Fe<sup>2+</sup>
by <i>Shewanella</i> sp., and then precipitated as nano-Fe sulphides (<i>e.g.</i>
FeS, FeS<sub>2</sub>), the Fe<sup>2+</sup> concentration first rose to the highest peak
and then decreased to a constant after seven days; (2) The dissolved
Fe<sup>3+</sup> and Sb<sup>3+</sup> are subjected to the redox reaction, and the Sb<sup>3+</sup> is oxidized to the
Sb<sup>5+</sup>. This process is only needed less than 24h. The presence of
cerium oxide in a sterile control test indicates the presence of a redox
reaction during the reaction, and (3) the total Sb concentration is
reduced by the adsorption of iron or manganese (hydr)oxide dissolved in
the solution from the smelting slag.

<p style=text-align:justify>A supplementary experiment is done to further explore the relationship
between Sb and Fe under the action of <i>Shewanella</i> sp.. The chemical
reagents (K(SbO)C<sub>4</sub>H<sub>4</sub>O<sub>6</sub>•1/2H<sub>2</sub>O and KSb(OH)<sub>6</sub>) were used to
simulate slag and reacted with <i>Shewanella</i> sp., and Fe<sup>3+</sup> was used as
a control. When there was no iron element, the Sb was reduced, it was
oxidized. This further illustrates that, although <i>Shewanella</i> sp. has a
reducing ability for Sb and has great application prospects, when
coexisting with iron, there are sequential reaction sequences and other
complex reactions. This study provides a theoretical basis for the
treatment of heavy metal pollution in the mine by <i>Shewanella</i> sp..
