<center><strong>Influence of redox changes on the behaviour of traffic-derived Sb and
its mechanism by simulated waterlogged roadside soils</strong>

<center><strong>Geng Yan<sup>a</sup></strong>, M.L. Mao<sup>b</sup> and L. Chen<sup>a</sup>

<center><i><sup>a</sup> College of Environmental Science and Engineering, Tongji
University, China</i>

<center><i><sup>b</sup> School of Environmental and Architecture, University of Shanghai
for Science and Technology, China</i>

<center><i>yangeng@tongji.edu.cn</i>


<p style=text-align:justify>Soil contamination by antimony (Sb) released from brake wear has become
an issue of public concern. Many of these soils are at least
occasionally subject to waterlogging and the redox-sensitive metal-Sb
may undergo speciation and mobility changes under periodic changes
between oxic and anoxic conditions. However, the behaviour of
traffic-related Sb and its controlling mechanisms are still poorly
understood. We performed column experiments to investigate how redox
conditions affect Sb leaching by simulated waterlogged roadside soils.
Results showed clear on-off switch mobility behaviour for Sb under
different redox conditions. Sb was mobilized under oxic conditions and
Sb (V) was the main speciation in soil solution. With the development of
anaerobic conditions upon waterlogging, Sb in leachate decreased under 5
ug/L and remained stable and the concentration of Sb(V) was lower than
that under oxic condition. This was attributed to the reduction of Sb(V)
to Sb(III) and the stronger sorption affinity of the latter to iron (Fe)
(hydr)oxide phases. However, when the redox potential further decreased
to Fe-reducing conditions, the concentration of Sb in leachate was
increased. This may due to reductive dissolution of the iron
(hydr)oxides.
