<center><strong>Heavy metal content and human health risk assessment of typical wild edible mushrooms</strong></center>

<center><strong>Yuan Gao<sup>a</sup></strong>, X. Liu<sup>a</sup> and L. Q. Ma<sup>a, b</sup>

<center><i><sup>a</sup> Research Center for Soil Contamination and Remediation, Southwest Forestry University,China</i>

<center><i><sup>b</sup> Soil and Water Science Department, University of Florida, USA </i>

<center><i>greta_17@163.com</i>

<p style=text-align:justify>Heavy metal pollution is one of the most serious problems in modern
society. The pollution especially in soils seriously affect the
ecosystem due to its low transference, permanent residence and
invulnerable to microbial degradation in soils. For human, heavy metals
are introduced to the body mostly by inhalation or resorption. Mushrooms
are efficient heavy metal accumulators. Thus it is necessary to
investigate their pollution level thus to accurately assess their risk
for human health. The aims of the study were to: (1) investigate heavy
metals (As, Pb, Cd and Hg) levels in soils and the growing wild edible
mushrooms; (2) establish correlations between soil and mushroom heavy
metal contents to estimate soil-to-plant bioavailability; and (3)
evaluate the health risk of wild edible mushrooms of different ages
basing on a probabilistic method. There are 63 mushroom samples from 11
species. The samples were washed with tap water and distilled water,
using porcelain stainless steel scissors to separate it into caps and
stipes and freezed dried at –65°C (Freez Zone 12, LABCONCO) until to get constant mass. After
recording dry weights, the lyophilized samples were cut and ground with
mortar and pestle under liquid N<sub>2</sub> protection to obtain homogeneous
materials and stored at −20°C for further analysis. Samples were pass
through a 100-mesh sieve and heavy metals were analyzed with X-Ray
Fluorescence (XRF). Standard soil (GBW07401), plant (GBW10048) and Hunan
rice (GBW10045) reference materials were used for quality control.
Mathematical methods and in vitro simulation
experiments were conducted to evaluate the human health risk of typical
mushrooms. Information obtained from this study helps to examine the
plant bioavailability of soil heavy metals and develop strategies to
reduce heavy metals plant uptake for improving food safety.
