<center><strong>Heavy metal accumulation</strong> <strong>in cassava in typical tropical areas of
China</strong>

<center><strong>Pan Pan<sup>a,b</sup></strong>, Beibei Liu<sup>a,b</sup>, Lin Wu<sup>a,b</sup> and Yiqing Fu<sup>a,b</sup>

<center><i><sup>a</sup> Environment and Plant Protection Institute, Chinese Academy of Tropical Agricultural Sciences, China</i>

<center><i><sup>b</sup> Agricultural Environmental Science Observation and Experiment
Station, Ministry of Agriculture, China</i>

<center><i>ppan2528@163.com</i>

<p style=text-align:justify>Cassava is one of the most important crops in tropical regions, its
tuber is organically rich in starch and carbohydrates. Driven by the
action of “taking tubers as staple food” advocated by the Ministry of
Agriculture, the cassava has being an enormous potential staple food in
China. Thus its security in planting process should be concerned
synchronously. However, the accumulation of heavy metal is a key factor
of cassava safety. The aim of this study was to investigate heavy metal
(chromium, nickel, lead and zinc) in cassava planting areas in typical
tropical areas of China, Hainan province, and its accumulation in
different part of cassava, The range of heavy metal concentrations in
planting areas were 29.17-2032.5 mg kg<sup>-1</sup> for Cr, 7.79-594.9 mg kg<sup>-1</sup>
for Ni, 5.25-116.88mg kg<sup>-1</sup>
for Pb, and 16.95-214.02 mg kg<sup>-1</sup> for Zn. 18.9%, 13.5%, 2.7%, 2.7%
sites for Cr, Ni, Pb and Zn, respectively, exceeded the risk screening
value of agricultural land. The order of bioconcentration factor in root
of cassava for four heavy metals was Cr &gt; Zn &gt; Ni &gt; Pb. The
correlation analysis indicated the soil pH value had significant
negative impact on heavy metal accumulation in cassava. These findings
suggested the high Cr concentration in planting areas and the low soil
pH value should be avoided when planting the cassava in this typical
tropical areas of China.
