<center><strong>Total mercury and methylmercury in an abandoned coal mining area in Guizhou Province, southwestern China</strong>

<center><strong>Longchao Liang<sup>a,b</sup></strong>, X. Xu<sup>b,c</sup>, P. Wu<sup>a</sup>, J. Han<sup>a,b</sup>, Z. Xu<sup>b,c</sup> and G. Qiu<sup>b</sup>

<center><i><sup>a</sup>College of Resource and Environmental Engineering, Guizhou University, China</i>

<center><i><sup>b</sup>State Key Laboratory of Environmental Geochemistry, Institute of Geochemistry, Chinese Academy of Sciences, China</i>

<center><i><sup>c</sup>University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, China</i>

<center><i>Lianglc139@126.com</i>

<p style=text-align:justify>In an abandoned coal mining area, gangue, water, sediment, paddy soil,
and rice samples were collected from abandoned coal mining region in
Xingren County, Guizhou Province, southwest China. Concentrations of
total Hg (THg) and methylmercury (MeHg) were measured to show regional
dispersion of Hg contamination. Sequential extraction for different Hg
species: water-soluble (F1), potassium
hydroxide-extractable (F2, fulvic acids-FAs), potassium
hydroxide-extractable (F3, humic acids-HAs), nitric acid-extractable
(F4), and residual (F5) fractions in gangue, sediment, and soil were
investigated as well. High THg concentrations obtained in gangues from
mining areas, ranged from 0.37 to 35 mg/kg with an average of 11Â±8.4
mg/kg. Similarly, sediment samples ranged from 0.15 to 19 mg/kg in THg
and from 0.036 to 7.8 ng/g in MeHg. THg concentrations in soils were
generally low varying from 0.16 to 0.91 mg/kg, but MeHg concentrations
were highly elevated ranging from 0.71 to 11 ng/g. THg and MeHg
concentrations in surface water varied from 1.0 to 11 ng/L and 0.008 to
0.37 ng/L, respectively. Rice samples exhibited wide ranges varying from
3.0 to 22 ng/g in THg and from 0.71 to 8.9 ng/g in MeHg. Sequential
extraction results showed that fraction F4 was the dominant Hg species
in both gangue and sediment, while F3 was the dominant form in soil.
Concentrations of n-HAs (difference between total organic carbon (TOC)
and HAs) in soil were positively correlated with THg and MeHg in both
soil and rice, indicating its Hg bioavailability under certain acidic
conditions. The spatial distribution patterns of Hg contamination in the
local environment suggested Hg is derived from gangues that dumped and
introduced into river banks during historic coal mining activities.
