<center><strong>Is maize a kind of low-arsenic accumulation crop, suitable for
substitution planting in arsenic-contaminated farmlands?</strong>

<center><strong>Xiaoxia Cao<sup>a</sup></strong>, X.B. Zeng<sup>a</sup>, L.Y. Bai<sup>a</sup> and S.M. Su<sup>*a</sup>

<center><i><sup>a</sup>Institute of Environment and Sustainable Development in Agriculture,
Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences, Beijing</i>

<center><i>1875092862@qq.com</i>

<p style=text-align:justify>Maize (<i>Zea mays</i> L.) is the most cultivated economic cereal in the
world. However, it is still debatable whether maize is a suitable
substitute for other crops with high As accumulation for planting in
As-contaminated farmlands. Here, through pot and field experiments,
outdoor investigation, and literature data analysis, we studied the
uptake capacity for As and its stability among different maize
varieties. The results indicated that when the total and available soil
As were 238.8 and 8.1 mg kg<sup>-1</sup>, respectively, the grain As ranged from
0.03 to 0.07 mg kg<sup>-1</sup>, significantly lower than the acceptable limit
(0.5 mg kg<sup>-1</sup>) for As in maize in China. The results of field
investigation and literature data analysis also supported this
observation. Maize was proven to be an economic crop with low grain As
even when grown on soils highly contaminated with As, thus making it
suitable for substitution planting in As-contaminated farmlands.
Further, the grain As content varied among different maize varieties. We
recommend that the planting of normal and waxy maize be prioritized over
sweet maize in As-contaminated farmlands as the former had the lower
available bio-concentration factor (aBCF) of 0.007 for grain and higher
stability among varieties (coefficient of variation, CV&lt;10%) than
sweet maize (aBCF=0.01 and CV=35.5%). Based on the results of principal
component analysis and the stepwise regression model, As sequestration
in root and low upward migration to grain were the main reasons for the
low grain As of maize. These observations will help to reduce the risk
of As accumulation in the edible part of agricultural products via
substitution planting in the future.
