<center><strong>Application of multi-surface speciation
model in prediction of metal partition and bioavailability in soils</strong>

<center><strong>Xueyuan Gu</strong>, X. Zhao and X. Wang

<center><i>School of the Environment, Nanjing University, P.R. China</i>

<center><i>xygu@nju.edu.cn</i>

<p style=text-align:justify>Due to compositional and spatial heterogeneity of soils, it is always a
challenge to predict the risks of trace elements in terrestrial system.
While, the solid-solution partitioning of metals is a key factor
controlling their accumulation, mobility, and bioavailability in soils,
it is essential to predict metal partitioning in soil/solution to assess the potential risk
of metal leaching and its bioavailability to biomass. Recently,
assemblage or multi-surface models were found to be a promising tool to
predict trace-element partitioning in soils. The models assume that
trace-element adsorption in heterogeneous soils can be described by the
sum of the individual reactive surfaces. While due to the model
parameters are thermodynamically based, it can be extrapolated to
various soils compared with empirical models. In this talk, we will
introduce two case study using the multi-surface speciation model to
predict metal partitioning and bioavailability.

<p style=text-align:justify>1) Cr(VI) partitioning in various soils

<p style=text-align:justify>We investigated the adsorption of Cr(VI) on 12 soils (previously
depleted of organic matter) as a function of pH and the loading
concentration of Cr(VI). A simple mechanism-based multi-surface
complexation model is proposed to predict Cr(VI) partitioning. The
retention of Cr(VI) in soils was considered to be attributed to two
reactive oxide surfaces, goethite, and hydrous ferric oxide (HFO);
however, modelling results showed that the best prediction was obtained
with goethite alone, whereas the addition of HFO resulted in an
overestimation of adsorption in some soils. Cr(VI) adsorption onto
goethite could be described using our previously proposed CD-MUSIC
model. The available phosphate in soils was identified as a strong
competitor for Cr(VI) adsorption; thus, for soils with low Fe/P ratio
(&lt;1) its effect on Cr(VI) retention should not be neglected.

<p style=text-align:justify>2) Prediction of partition and bioavailability of Cd(II) and Ni(II) to
wheat

<p style=text-align:justify>An improved soil multi-surface speciation model was developed to predict
the partition of Cd(II) and Ni(II) in soils. Nineteen selected soils
from China with a wide range of varieties spiked with Cd(II) and Ni(II)
were used to test the model, while wheat was used as test plant.
Adsorption to soil organic matters was evaluated using the NICA-Donnan
model and to iron oxides using CD-MUSIC and a two-site DDL model with
published model parameters. The partition of Cd(II) and Ni(II) in
soil-water phase was evaluated with 0.01M CaCl2 extraction. The
phytoaccumulation of Cd(II) and Ni (II) in wheat roots and shoots was
evaluated using several methods, such as 0.01M CaCl2, 0.43M HNO3, soil
pore water, DGT extraction and modelling. In addition, a set of data
from field including soil properties and Cd accumulated in wheat seeds
were also used to evaluate the model prediction. The results from both
lab and field experiments confirmed that the multi-surface model was an
efficient method for metal phyto-accumulation assessment.

<strong>Acknowledgement</strong>

<p style=text-align:justify>The authors thank National Key R&D Programs of China(2018YFC1800602) the
Natural Science Foundation of China (No. 21577062 and 21876080).
