<center><strong>Microscopic immobilization patterns of lead transformation from carbonate to phosphate in a counter-diffusion system</strong>

<center><strong>Mei Wang<sup>a,b</sup></strong>, G. L. Guo<sup>b</sup>, Z. Zhang<sup>b</sup> and F.S. Li<sup>b</sup>

<center><i><sup>a</sup> School of the Environment, Nanjing University, China</i>

<center><i><sup>b</sup> Department of Soil Pollution Control and Waste Management, Chinese Research Academy of Environmental Sciences, China</i>

<center><i>wangmei@nju.edu.cn</i>

<p style=text-align:justify>Effectiveness of phosphate (P) immobilizing lead (Pb) in soil is often
unsatisfied, mainly due to the limiting mass transfer in soil porous
system and the kinetics of Pb liberation from active mineral into the
soil solution. Insufficient information has achieved on the in-situ
pore-scale lead immobilization processes. In this work, we carried out
visualized Pb immobilization by 0.5 mol/L monopotassium phosphate in 1D
counter-diffusion U-tube, which composed of equivalent amount of
crystallized lead carbonate in the 0.2wt% porous agarose hydrogel.
Migration of the adding P was solely controlled by counter-diffusion. As
illustrated by optical microscopy and SEM images, lead carbonate of
homogenous hexagonal rod-like crystals gradually developed significant
reaction front and zonation in different horizontal locations, and
transformed crystals into scattered elongate large-size platy morphology
in the cationic side and dense small needle-clusters in the anionic side
until a balance had reached after more than 3 weeks. Occasionally, there
were horizontally distributed filamentous or chain-linking crystals,
which may be the accretion pathway of tiny crystal particles. Results
also revealed that the original surface of protogenetic minerals were
etched by the secondary minerals, making the surface with arranged
mosaic pattern. Crystal surface become less smooth as the agarose pore
size get larger, and debris of unassembled sediments formed when adding
humic acid, implying the flexible crystal growth mode with various
conditions, thus challenged the mineral stability. Finally, some
unconverted lead carbonate minerals had been found in the unreachable
middle of the tube due to the compact crystal density, responsible for
the potential release risk once the sediments get crack. The above
results revealed the in-situ mineral phase transformation during the
immobilization processes, providing better understand and feasible
improvement approaches of the lead immobilization effectiveness.
