<center><strong>Large-scale demonstration of novel, entirely sustainable
chelator-based washing of heavy metals contaminated soils</strong>

<center><strong>Domen Lestan<sup>a</sup></strong>, S. Gluhar<sup>a</sup>, N. Finzgar<sup>b</sup> and M. Gerl<sup>c</sup>

<center><i><sup>a</sup> Agronomy Dept., University of Ljubljana, Slovenia</i>

<center><i><sup>b</sup> Envit Ltd., Slovenia</i>

<center><i><sup>c</sup> Arhel Ltd., Slovenia</i>

<center><i>domen.lestan@bf.uni-lj.si</i>

<p style=text-align:justify>Fertile soil is a valuable, limited resource, but often contaminated
with a number of toxic metals i.e. Pb, Cd, Cu, As etc., representing
pervasive and persistent risk to human health. For example: any exposure
to Pb is considered to be potentially harmful to human health; no
threshold for adverse effects has been identified. However, only a
fraction of heavy metals contaminated sites are treated today due to the
lack of efficient and environmentally sustainable technologies. We
recently developed unique soil washing technology - ReSoil, which
efficiently removes heavy metals from soil by complexation with any of
strong (biodegradable and environmental persistent) amino-polycarboxylic
chelators, for example EDTA. The patented technology features a novel
reaction of alkaline substitution, precipitation and adsorption of toxic
metals on polysaccharides, and chelator acidic precipitation for process
waters and chelator recycling in a closed loop. No wastewaters and max.
1% of solid wastes are generated (US Patent 9108233 B2; US Patent
10124378 B2). The post-remedial toxic emissions from soil are mitigated
to the levels close or bellow limits of quantification by thorough soil
rinsing and addition of zero-valent Fe (ZVI) into the soil slurry (GB
Patent Appl. 1720126.0) which enables for fast and permanent adsorption
of small residual quantities of chelator and toxic metals chelates. The
process is abiotic; for example the poor EDTA biodegradability is not an
issue even if exceedingly high concentration of this extremely efficient
chelator is used in soil washing. Furthermore, ZVI slurry addition
simultaneously immobilize oxy-anion forming contaminants such as As.
ReSoil technology is cost-efficient (140-190 $ / ton without profit,
economy of scale) due to the reagent recycling and using inexpensive /
waste auxiliary materials (lime, sulphuric acid, waste paper, scrap
iron) and common process machinery. Realistically tended vegetable
gardens with EDTA-remediated soil (chelator was selected as the most
efficient) have supported the growth of vegetables, grasses and
horticultural plants. No significant leaching of toxic chelates from
remediated soil was measured in beds constructed as lysimeters. The
uptake of contaminating Pb, Zn and Cd into the edible parts of
vegetables was greatly reduced bellow values stipulated by legislature
for safe food. Remediation with high EDTA doses initially to some extend
affected the soil C and N cycles, soil enzyme activities and the
structure and abundance of soil microbial populations, especially
arbuscular mycorrhizae (AM). However, using simple and inexpensive
revitalisation measures, e.g., addition of compost, healthy un-polluted
soil and commercial or indigenous microbial AM inoculum, completely
restored microbial life. ReSoil technology is evaluated in recently
constructed demonstrational remediation plant with capacity of up to 6
ton of soil per day
(https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r50LNFog-Hc&feature=youtu.be) and
demonstrational gardens with remediated soil which are open for local
community and other public.
