<center><strong>The pollution sources and fractions of Zinc (Zn) in paddy soil from
mining area</strong>

<center><strong>Yuhui Liu<sup>a,b</sup></strong>, C.S. Liu<sup>a</sup>, T. Gao<sup>a,b</sup> and Y.F. Xia<sup>a,b</sup>

<center><i><sup>a</sup></i> <i>State Key Laboratory of Environmental Geochemistry, Institute of
Geochemistry, Chinese Academy of Sciences, PR China</i>

<center><i><sup>b</sup> University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, PR China</i>

<center><i>liuyuhui16@</i> <i>mails.ucas.edu.cn</i>

<p style=text-align:justify>Studying the sources and existential forms of
heavy elements is conductive to understand the regional migration and
transformation laws of heavy metals. In order to do so, various
environmental medias were collected surrounding the Dabaoshan Mine in
China. We measure Zn isotope radio to trace the sources of the metals.
The δ<sup>66</sup>Zn/<sup>64</sup>Zn values are heavy in ore, suspended sediment and
surface water (from 0.28 to 0.3‰), whereas the paddy topsoil and fly ash
have lighter δ<sup>66</sup>Zn/<sup>64</sup>Zn isotope ratios (from -0.26 to -0.17‰).
Meanwhile, we also measured the Zn isotope radio of a paddy soil
profile, which shows that the isotope radio of plow pan layer (0.26‰) is
obviously heavier than the plough layer (-0.06‰). This suggests that Zn
pollution in the paddy soils was mainly caused by the deposition of fly
ash during anthropogenic activities (mining and refining) and irrigation
water from surface water. Besides, fly ash make a greater contribution
to the plough layer than the plow pan layer. On the contrary, the
irrigation is the main source of the Zn in the plow pan layer. Selective
sequential extraction method was used to distinguish the content of
different fractions of heavy metal. The results show that Zn mainly
associated with reducible Fe-Mn oxides (12.0%-68.7%), followed by
exchangeable (1.1%-50.0%). X-Ray Powder Diffraction (XRD) and <sup>57</sup>Fe
Mössbauer spectrum reveal that the mainly Fe-Mn oxides in the paddy
soils are goethite and amorphous Fe oxide, which easily adsorb Zn<sup>2+</sup> ion. Therefore, adsorption maybe
the main way which heavy metal Zn bond to the Fe oxide in our study
area. Our research provides scientific basis for developing the soil
pollution control and remediation strategies in mining areas.
